on may 18th the california democratic
council presented at the beverly hills
high school
a political history of richard nixon
which they call the california
connection
kpfk has excerpts of this seminar which
includes former california governor
edmund pat brown
assemblyman john burton chairperson of
the democratic state committee
stanley scheinbaum economist and
director of the pentagon papers defense
committee
former congressman jerry voorhees don
freed author and playwright
and professors peter dale scott and
richard popkin
before going to the california
connection domestic affairs analyst and
nationally syndicated commentator
charles morgan offers his view
of the theatrical production called
watergate
in reading a book or viewing a play the
careful audience will attend
not only to what is being said and done
on page or stage
it will attend also to the underlying
mood and tempo
intended by the author otherwise crises
climaxes and conclusions
may be open to misunderstanding or
confusion
in our time the works of such as harold
pinter or edward
albee offer themselves as example
the reviewer who rushes from the
premiere of a pinter or alby play to
hammer out a decision
without meditation on the meaning of
this or that word inflection or gesture
must be gifted either with inordinate
genius
or inordinate husba attention must be
given to what in journalism is called
the sidebar that seemingly unimportant
bit of information
which illuminates the author's intent so
it is with the watergate melodrama
now unfolding before our eyes and into
our ears
what is said and done is important of
course but that which is seemingly
trivial or unintentional
should demand our thought and our
conclusion that the senate select
committee
and its extraordinarily able counsel sam
dash and fred thompson
have come up with a carefully plotted
script which willy-nilly
also involves the spear carriers and
those who
wait in the wings there is little or
nothing of the careless
in all this any skilled writer would
admire the way in which the committee
sets its theme
and premise with the introduction of
robert odell
an administrator of the committee to
re-elect the president
he was brought on almost as a non-entity
a glorified file clerk
a preliminary necessity and diversion if
you will
we as audience had every right to expect
he would strut his bookkeeper's half
hour on the stage and be gone
but he was exposed to quizzing for more
than three hours and emerged as an
embodiment
of the aristotelian trinity of time
place and person
he introduced almost every major
character we are to meet in these next
months
he established the sites and scopes of
their activities
as surprised as any in the audience this
stand-in elevated to featured status
huffed and puffed and his wings
certainly weakened the structure of
marked cards
meant to shelter the watergate
conspirators the committee which
authored this setting of the scene
could only be credited with an exquisite
dramaturgic dexterity
but it was not odell's to introduce the
note of suspense so necessary to the
plot
that role remained for white house
lackey bruce carley
who brought in to play the mystery man
one roy shepherd
a delivery man with special white house
clearance who carelessly said
removed files from the office of
convicted water gator e
howard hunt who is the shepherd
the ghost of panic's past or a real live
man
well we must live with this mystery for
a while as dramatically
we should now the script demanded and
got the cops with the law and order
lines about how they put the arm on the
watergate burglars charming
but even more charming jim mccord even
as our authors had given us robert odell
so we now had james yodel and yodel
mccord did
with an intensity qualifying him for any
country
and western circuit mccord is that
characterization which confounds any
mystery writer
how do you draw a realistic picture of a
heel
without making him a hero how do you
allow him to advance the plot and deepen
it
in favor of the good guys without
putting him in shining armor
the preferred mix and hater and our
number is legion
will tend to make mccord a hero but a
hero he is not
to be faithful to the story this must be
kept in perspective
mccord was knowingly involved in a seamy
turgid
toxic illegal mess up from the sinks and
stews of the fbi and cia
ghettos he ambled into this one with his
eyes
and pocketbook wide open caught with his
pinky in the jam pot
he began to chirp his patriotism even as
disenchanted and frightened radicals did
in the 40s and 50s
and even as they he faces a dim and
dismal future
for whatever value he offers to the
advancement of the good guys plot
jim mccord remains an informer in the
words of an old middle european saw
some men are birds for anything whose
bread they eat
his song they sing his value to the
working of the plot is unquestioned but
the unsavory aspect of this selfishly
motivated character
must be kept in view unless we do indeed
make him our hero
a posture we may be sure that the
authors did not and do not
intend on the audience level we may
consider these hearings as a morality
play
in the strictest sense all the virtues
and vices are here
we may well consider them remembering
that of the seven deadly sins
enumerated by augustine the first is
pride
look thee to the white house angel our
morality play is however sadly
incomplete the morality play demands its
every man who is at once the hero and
the object of heroism
whose good is served in the working of
the plot how sad it is that here every
man may not give a damn
in the prologue apathy starred the
reactions of far too many
in response to the revelations of
watergate
and in the first scene the tv networks
reported
that they were deluged with calls from
irate viewers protesting that their
morning diet of prurience the soap opera
had been derailed the networks have
responded
they say they may well discontinue
full-scale broadcasts of the hearings
they wailed it after all they're losing
advertising revenue which was at a
record high last year
the year of watergate this leads to a
question the authors of our play
probably didn't intend is the corruption
on pennsylvania avenue
that much worse than the corruption on
sixth avenue
the appetite of ignorance grows by the
corruption it feeds upon
one hopes the ignorance of the present
critics is to be shrugged off
not only by the authors of that which
unfolds on our stage
but by those who provide our vision of
the stage the networks are the dissonant
howls of a few
to override or cancel out the sworn
obligation to serve the public interest
convenience and necessity
the networks say the majority of
protesters were men and women in the
upper middle age range one wonders
how that was determined through the
coldly anonymous critical device of the
telephone
and one is inclined to wonder if this
flood of calls did not have some sort of
sinister inspiration
beyond the fetid wits and humors of
advancing age
is it to be said we imply a certain
organization here
indeed it is a critical cabal is not at
all unlikely
the brains that fabricated support for
the mining of haifang harbour
could certainly fabricate such a
campaign as this
and it is not to be overlooked that one
of those of advancing age who could not
be bothered with such televised trivia
as the watergate's hearings was our own
numero uno
richard nixon the son of peyton place
caused it to be known
he couldn't be bothered he has other
things on his mind
the bombing of cambodia the assurance of
constantly rising profits and constantly
diminishing value
of the consumer dollar and attention to
the game of musical chairs he plays
in the name of reworking his staff with
the same old
tired personnel changing the shadow but
not the substance
this man who would assert himself as
number one critic with his inattention
to the play
remains the drama's most probable
villain the authors of this thing
have had that in mind and we as audience
and critics must keep it there
for we are every man and the play must
serve our purpose
our eyes and minds must be riveted not
only on stage center
but on the peripheries of the stage
where the author's meaning may be more
clearly elaborated or subverted
of some poetic significance probably was
the nbc observation
that the greatest number of calls it
received had to do with the preemption
of a thing called days of our lives
it is an irony of this troubled time
that the truth
of the days of our lives is being
informed in the drama of the watergate
hearings
and that those who provide the view of
its stage are considering denial of it
with such denial they would make of the
american tragedy an american farce which
carries the seeds of our unknowing
undoing pray that it not be said
that this worked before us be
sidetracked left cold
and inert like shakespeare's mackerel
only to stink
and shine in the moonlight this is
charles morgan
and now to the california connection
with moderator stanley sheinbaum
this program was produced by stephen
blum
there are two interesting coincidences
for me here tonight
one is that a year ago today
the ellsberg russo defense team
gathered in california and set up
offices downtown
after a year a previous year of where we
were spread out around the country
and this in our group is a dramatic day
and we're all rather conscious of it
the second uh coincidence and of some
drama for me
is that in this auditorium
the aclu held the first fundraiser for
the
ellsberg russo defense also
just a few days later slightly less than
a year ago and we were always grateful
for that because it gave us a good kick
off
i don't want to take time making many
remarks
i will make the simplest one i can think
of
and that is that we the people are
finally on the aggressive
and for the first time i find the
term aggressive a pleasant one
there has been too much aggression in
many ways in this country
and the people who are primarily
responsible
are clearly on the defensive and i hope
we keep them that way and in essence
that is one of the purposes of this
meeting tonight
one of my tasks tonight is to introduce
a lot of people
i take a certain pleasure
in introducing former governor pat brown
for a number of reasons he and i have
had our differences in the past
almost every time i see him he points
them out to me
i want to say though wally had mentioned
that i was instrumental
in obtaining the release of andreas
papandreou from jail in greece
pat brown played a significant role in
that
and i think he ought to get credit for
i don't think there's anything i can
tell you about him that you don't
already know
so i will therefore introduce pat brown
thank you very very much it's good to be
back and when i hear that
applause i feel another campaign coming
on i
but i don't want to and i don't think
that we should either
labor this watergate situation
too much
because i don't think it's necessary
number one
and number two because i think it's
unfair
the case is now in the hands of the
grand juries in
new york and washington and florida and
i think we ought to leave it there
i think we ought to let them determine
it we then have it in the congress of
the united states and the senate of the
united states
and i'm sure that we can presume that
those people are honest
and the only thing that we can you mean
that the
united states senators are are not
honest i mean
well i mean i we can't get into a
to an argument about that when we have a
case like we have but let me
let me let me just say that i think that
we're going to have a
a fair determination and as a district
attorney a former district attorney an
attorney general and governor
i think that it's only fair to to leave
it in the
in the hands of the authorities now i
don't mean that we shouldn't discuss it
i think these things here tonight a a
town meeting is
is important but i think we have to
discuss it
objectively and we have to discuss it
factually
and without without emotion and pray to
god that in the end our country
our country's right and that we survive
this crisis like we've survived all the
others
now let me say about the 1962 campaign
but before i say that let me just tell
you a story
a week before the campaign was over with
richard nixon had a press conference
and in that press conference he said on
friday night
i'm going to have a statewide television
program
and he said i'm going to expose governor
edmund g
pat brown he didn't say what he was
going to expose
and i wasn't quite sure what he knew
between you and me
i was really deeply concerned about what
he was going to expose
so i waited you know when you're
campaigning you're campaigning all over
the state of california you're in eureka
you're in san francisco you're in los
angeles you're in riverside
you wake up the next morning you don't
know where you are so he made that
statement on monday
and the television program was to be on
friday night
wednesday night i was down in riverside
about three o'clock in the morning i
awakened
and i looked over in the bed next to me
there was
a woman i said that nixon
that nixon he's framing me he's framing
me
and i turn on the light it was my wife
she joined me and i forgot about it
now the point of the story is that in
politics
you have to be deeply suspicious of the
opposition
and in addition to that you have to be
very careful
but in the 62 campaign i'm not going to
come here and tell you that
that mr nixon was guilty of bad campaign
tactics
or that i was i was a paragon of virtue
in that campaign it was a tough campaign
he started out 23 or 24 points ahead of
me
but we began to gain on him in fair
debate throughout this state we debated
up and down the state of california
before the associated press
the united press international various
places throughout this state
and i thought and i'll be very frank
with you that i thought it was a fair
campaign and i thought we wanted on the
issues
because i thought the democratic party
the second democratic administration
in 60 years in this state had done a
good job and that's why we won it
and why they had to resort to a phony
poll
two weeks or three weeks before the end
of the campaign i cannot understand
as a matter of fact it hurt them more
than it helped them
and they have this organization the i
have the papers here in my
in my pocket are before me the
democratic state central committee
versus the committee for the
preservation of the democratic party in
california
and an unincorporated association
and in that camp in that judgment they
found
that that richard nixon had finance in
his campaign organization
had financed this phony poll
this fraudulent statement of who was
behind it
in the last three weeks of the campaign
and they found and this is a finding of
a republican judge in san francisco
republican by registration before he he
became a judge
and the finding was it was drafted in
the form of a postcard poll
was reviewed amended and finally
approved by mr nixon personally
in the form attached as exhibit a and
then they attach the poll
to it so i'm not going to talk about the
campaign other than to tell you
that i thought it was a great campaign i
can't think of anything i enjoyed more
in my life than winning it
i can't think of any campaign where i
get better
and i'm not going to i'm not going to
berate the man that i defeated
even though he's in serious trouble
tonight
i'll let the others take care of that i
think the country
the country has proven itself by
by the way that they've ascertained the
facts
but i think it's a tragedy that a great
a great political party
felt that it had to resort to the things
that it did
to defeat my candidate george mcgovern
last year thank you very much
thank you governor
in 1974
this state is going to re-elect a
democratic senator
we are going to replace a republican
governor
and the man who is probably most key
in achieving all this is john burton
who as you know is chairman of the
democratic state
central committee assemblyman john
burton
chairman of the assembly rules committee
and an old friend of mine we have been
through
much in the political process together
i am a i am amazed that he continues to
be reelected
so i have some confidence that he's
going to do something very effective
about the democratic party in 1974.
i kind of agree with pat brown
on the subject matter of nixon of
watergate
and of the other things i like to
consider in my own way that i'm somewhat
consistent
and consistency means
if it means amnesty for young people who
went to canada
it may or may not mean amnesty for the
president of the united states but i
don't think
that i would say no amnesty for no one
because i believe in
forgiveness in reconciliation in amnesty
something like amnesia and i'm very
forgetful anyway
secondly i'm not sure
that i disagree with the statements of
prince ceonuk where he said a
weakened nixon who will be ineffectual
in dealings with the congress may not be
a better
thing for the world than his replacement
who uh could be spiro agnew
or it could be a democrat james eastland
all right so i mean you know let's you
know let's keep it all in perspective on
the other hand
uh as governor brown said if it is
proven
or if there is reasonable cause to
believe that an individual has
broken the law committed some high crime
or misdemeanor
it is up to the house of representatives
to uh
make that accusation and it's up to the
senate to try it
and that's kind of where i am i would
say
that the thing that hit me most
in this state concerning watergate was
the reaction and statement of our good
great
glorious governor sir ronald
who said he didn't really consider
the illegal acts committed by these fine
people in the white house
is making them criminals
you know but if you're a welfare
recipient you take another ten dollars
that's welfare fraud that's crime you
should go to jail
like that was an indication of his sense
of selective
justice that only the poor and the young
in the non-white can break the law and
if you're white in your middle class and
your proper republican
you don't break the law you may commit
an illegal act
but certainly you don't break the law
and so again as we concern ourselves
with watergate
as i am and i'm not concerned myself
really so much with the bugging and the
political espionage
uh because that had to be idiotic
uh i mean tapping i mean it just had to
be idiotic up front
it's immoral up front to have
the type of political system we have in
this country that permits that type of
thing to be financed
but more importantly the cover-up
in the lies or what disturbed me it's
the classic case
uh and i'm sure when all of us were
young
uh we fibbed to our mother and she asked
a question and we answered the question
we got in deeper
and deeper and deeper and this is a
classic case
where the lie got the people in deeper
and deeper and deeper and
it really boils down to the credibility
of the institutions of government
because certainly was only richard nixon
or it was the republican
president and the committee to reelect a
republican president but it does
bother me about the institutions of
office
and i am conservative enough and believe
enough in the constitution in the bill
of rights
again to give any individual
whether he's the black down in south
central los
angeles or a chicano in the east side
or a wasp in washington dc
the benefit of the doubt under our
constitution
and the due process safeguards
guaranteed to our constitution
because i'm one of those that believe
when you
infringe upon the civil liberties and
the constitutional rights of one
individual
you infringe upon the constitutional
rights of all individuals
and i've always believed that and i
think it would be very
inconsistent for those of us that raised
that cry
in the days of the loyalty oath in the
days of the free speech movement
and then the days of the witch hunts to
forget about it now because they're the
other guys
and they're the bad guys again the
ultimate
solution to things like watergate
to things like honesty and integrity in
government
in my opinion is to elect people
of honor and people of integrity
to government it's really that simple
we are the only ones that can do it
there's no one else can do it but the
people
and you want to know something if the
people would have been with it
if we would have done our job if all of
the decent
thinking people would have done
the right thing and would have looked at
the man mcgovern would have looked at
the man nixon
and voted for the person who clearly
stood out
on the basis of honor and integrity with
all of the bugs with all of the bribes
with all of the cash
with all of the suitcases they would not
have been
able to win that election it is that
simple and we cannot delude ourselves
the is i think it was a republican
senator
who said these people were trying to
steal the very thing that was america
well that is true but you want to know
something
we are the ones again despite their
illegal acts
by not doing more by not really getting
into it
that allowed them to be successful
because otherwise
it would have been an attempted theft
rather than a theft
thank you john i want to make a few
remarks
about watergate about richard nixon
about the pentagon papers about what has
happened to this country
in the last 25 years we got
caught up in the cold war
the truman doctrine the increasing
struggles about
communism stopping them anywhere
and as we know we wound up in a disaster
in vietnam but what happened in this
country
in these 25 years and what watergate the
pentagon papers
are all about it's really summarized in
the one phrase the abuse of
power this country
has become and it's no secret
very powerful economically
even morally
certainly politically around the world
it is not as powerful
in any of those senses as it was say
two or three years ago
the point is that we became the people
in power and the american people also
because we all share the guilt in this
country
of what has gone on we like power
people have a basic instinct for power
but as soon as you start getting
involved in it
you will overstate it you will overuse
it and you will abuse it
this country cannot go around the world
as we have done trying to tell
other people how to live this is what we
have tried in western europe
and they are now saying nay to us
because of our lost
prestige because of our weakened dollar
which was expended
on frivolous gestures in other parts of
the world
we tried to tell the vietnamese how to
live what kind of a system they had
but the worst of it is what has happened
in this country
and we see the abuse all the way around
it is now front pages it's simple now
we saw before this broke out in into
west into the watergate
someone recently said weathergate
we saw a climbingst
tell a congressional committee
if you don't like what the president's
doing even if it's
he didn't say these words but he implied
them even if it is illegal
impeach him we know the cynicism
that lay behind those words
and getting rid of a climbings and
getting rid of a
calm back and an erlickman
and even a nixon is not going to do the
trick
there is a lot of power at stake in this
country and it comes in many forms
we know what vesco is all about
he tried to put two hundred thousand
dollars into the republican committee so
the sec
would stay off his back what is not
given equal attention
is what really was at stake there not
two hundred thousand dollars
but 224 million dollars
that he had skimmed off from the
investors in mutual funds
that is one kind of power that is
available to be grabbed for
and leads to the corruption that we
understand and see in this country
now now i suggest to you
that these abuses of power will continue
politically in the political realm in
the international realm
and in the economic realm
as long as the defense budget remains as
large as it is
with all the pressure that nixon is
under
there is still no move to cut the
defense budget
it is still close to one tenth of our
gross national product
and that means that there are a lot of
people around this country in the
corporate world
who stay up all night figuring out a way
of getting in on that act
and with those sums involved with those
sums involved the abuses of power will
continue
and we might get rid of a nixon but that
defense budget will still be there
as a magnet for anyone with any sense
toward power
and sadly most people have that sense
and when they get close to it they start
using it
this is what the pentagon papers was all
about
it's what watergate is all about and it
is the major threat to this country
today
and remain so despite the titillation we
are all getting from the hearings in the
senate
what have you one of the things that
comes through loud and clear in those
in the congressional behavior today
despite all their having been offended
by the climbing statement to the
congress about nixon
and what the congress can go do with
itself
many many of those congressmen and
senators
still owe their jobs to the kinds of
defense contracts that can be brought
into their districts and into their
state
and those contracts are handed out by
the executive branch
and you do what you want about the nixon
you will not do what you want about the
country
until we get off this false idol of
defense
defense expenditures and what it can do
for the economy of this country
one last word is an economist
one of the major problems in this
country today
is the is the fact that income is not
this
distributed well we live
in an affluent community here we are
meeting tonight in one of the wealthiest
communities beverly hills in this
country
and even if you happen to come across
the line
from santa monica or west hollywood
you are still living in a community that
is basically in the upper five percent
of the income grouping in this country
until the incomes in this country are
distributed in a way
that the people can order the goods
instead of the executive branch being
able to
you will have the defense budget on us
you will have the kinds of corruptions
that we witnessed in vietnam
that we witnessed in watergate it will
not stop
this country has to get back to its
first principles
the power the pockets of power
have to be broken up they are abnormal
and they are false
and the heart of the problem lies in the
pentagon
and in the white house but no matter
what else you think of
the defense budget has to go do not be
too overjoyed even though i said we were
on the aggressive earlier
we are no ways near there
mr chairman ladies and gentlemen i'm
going to stand in front of you right now
for just about two minutes
i've been given the singular honor
and really a great pleasure a kind of
one of a
one-of-a-lifetime type of thing to
introduce
the next speaker to you and in trying to
determine
how to make this introduction it all of
a sudden occurred to me
that maybe i ought to let him introduce
himself
in his own words
and if you will bear with me it'll take
me about a minute and a half or two
minutes
to read this introduction
this is the preface of a book
and this preface is dated june 1972
clermont california and please remember
that date
june of 1972
and the preface reads as follows
the author of this book was the first
victim
of the nixon chapter formula for
political success
it mean it may be therefore be thought
that sour
grapes have prompted it's being written
but such is not the case the first shock
on election night was hard to take
it meant that 10 years of earnest effort
and record
generally judged at least good
were of less consequence in deciding the
outcome of an election
than some cleverly turned phrases
but as events developed my defeat was
from purely personal point of view
almost a blessing
it gave me three months of unharry time
to finish writing my book confessions of
a congressman
and at the end of that short period of
unemployment
i was selected for the very job i had
most wanted
the job was that of executive director
of the cooperative league of the united
states
of america it gave me an opportunity to
work at building
grassroots economic and social
organizations
and enterprises a satisfying and
rewarding task as time passed i came to
feel
that perhaps mr nixon and mr chatner had
done me a personal favor in 1946
for a period of 22 years i observed a
self-imposed rule
not to make any public reference to
richard nixon
but when in 1968 he was elected
president of the united states
i could no longer in good conscience
remain silent
i remember a comment made in 1954
by the sacramento bee on a speech of mr
nixon's
quote there was little policy and no
principle in nixon's words
but there was displayed infinite
adaptability and caution
qualities which may carry the young man
far
if all there is to american politics
is smart jockeying for power and
preferment
i hoped then as i still hope
that the bee was not prophetic in its
observation
but as time passed as mr nixon's taxes
tactics did not change as he advanced to
the presidency by the use
of those very tactics and as i observed
the devious
and often dangerous practices of his
administration
my hope turned to fear that the bee may
have been right in its summer prediction
so i decided to write this book and to
dedicate it to the proposition
that american politics can be rescued
from the low state
to which it has fallen in the nixon
years
looking across this land and beyond it i
am concerned that the crisis in man's
long history is upon us
now today i see a deterioration in the
quality of our country's life
that is frightening indeed i believe i
know the reason why this is so
general omar bradley one of our
country's finest
soldiers stated it better than i can do
when he said
we have grasped the mystery of the adam
and rejected the sermon on the mount the
world has achieved brilliance without
wisdom power without conscience
ours is a world of nuclear giants and
ethical
infants we know more about war than we
know about
peace more about killing than we know
about
living it is time we began to do
individually and as a nation what is
right
simply because it is right and leave the
issue to a greater power than this world
contains
but that i fear we shall not do without
clear good moral leadership and
inspiration
from a president of our country such
leadership is not forthcoming now
nor will it be until another than the
present occupant
sits behind the white house desk
and i complete my introduction by
reading this short statement
from senator paul h douglas quote
i have seen the eyes of hardened
politicians
moisten at the name of jerry voorhees
name
and i believe he is truly one of the
saints of the earth
ladies and gentlemen congressman jerry
voorhees thank you very much mr gordon
and thank you ladies and gentlemen
i do appreciate mr gordon's reading the
introduction to my book as a matter of
fact
i was going to use the last two
paragraphs for the conclusion of my
speech so now i don't have to do that
i might have come here this evening with
a certain feeling of
i do have that feeling of relief
but if anybody thinks i come here
tonight with a feeling of
i told you so or satisfaction or
something like that
she or he is quite mistaken because i
come with a heavy heart indeed
there are others to follow me and i will
have to be careful not to talk too long
let me tell you why i come with a heavy
heart first
because had it not been for the dogged
determination
of the reporters on principally three
great newspapers in this country
the washington post new york times and
the los
angeles times the people of this country
would tonight
would tonight still be accepting
mr nixon's statement that nobody
now or previously employed in the white
house had anything to do
with the watergate caper
the tragedy of the situation was that
this nation accepted
watergate as a caper for months and
months
and months
and i hope by this time that all those
people
who have gone around saying well it's
the press's own
fault that the administration tries to
destroy it
have come to the realization that the
very freedom of this country depends
upon
the freedom of that press
the immunity of reporters from being put
in jail because they won't reveal
confidences
and the right of free american citizens
to criticize an administration in power
in washington
when they believe it's wrong
and not be accused of treason
the second reason i come with a heavy
heart is because
i let mr nixon get his start
i didn't do it because i wanted to i
tried my best it wasn't good enough
i'm not going to discuss that campaign
except
i'll give you just one little insight
into it
advertisements were run saying that
jerry vory's voting record is more
socialistic and communistic than it is
democratic
they talked about 27 votes that i had
cast
which were really 17 because they
duplicated a couple of lists
and without telling what these votes
were that they were very bad
votes from some point of view well they
were votes for the soil conservation act
and for the tva and for the social
security act
for reciprocal trade agreements for
putting a ceiling on the cost of housing
for veterans
etcetera etcetera they were votes for
things that were passing the congress by
substantial majorities they were votes
for things that were
important to the people that
46 election is of no importance
whatsoever today
except for one simple reason
i don't know whether mr nixon knew about
watergate ahead of time
i don't know whether he knew about the
forging of a letter on senator muskie's
stationary that accused
two of his rival candidates for the
democratic nomination of sexual
irregularities i don't know how much mr
nixon knew
about the planting of people in people's
organizations who were supposed to help
cause
riots i don't know how much he knew
about what i do know
is that the whole career
of mr nixon was
based upon the very kind of tactics
that his devoted staff in the white
house
has carried out with or without his
knowledge
in recent days and i tell you that the
pattern of that
program and it isn't just the break-in
at watergate
it's a whole pattern of sabotage
underhand dealings
spending of money to have fake telegrams
sent to the white house
from the white house expressing support
for the bombing of north vietnam and the
mining of the harbor
this whole pattern of cynical
contempt for the american electorate
is entirely in keeping
it shouldn't be a surprise to anybody
and this is the pity of it
after all
when one says that anything
should be done in order to win
and when on many sides you'll find that
philosophy
applauded
when you take the position that there
are no ground rules
of decency
you're striking at the heart of any free
people in any democratic government
the schemes that were carried out by the
committee to re-elect the president
and form mr nixon's benefit whether or
not
with his knowledge those schemes were
aimed at nothing less than the
destruction
of all opposition to the nixon
administration
and indeed the destruction of the
democratic party itself if they could
get away with it
many of us
almost let them they were afraid of
mcgovern
one of the decentest
most profoundly religious individuals
that ever was a candidate for president
of the united states
why people were afraid of him i have no
idea
their fear should have been turned in
quite a different direction
i come with a heavy heart also because
in these days
a stiffening of opposition to the
program of the nixon administration
to subvert the american form of
government and turn it into a virtual
presidential dictatorship
the resentment and concern of the people
about that
was only aroused because a couple of
wide awake washington cops
happened to catch five guys burglarizing
and attempting to bug the
headquarters of the democratic national
committee
it's sort of poetic justice that the
washington police force was
involved in this because that's the same
police force which mr nixon
applauded for its mass arrest of 13
000 people who were only bystanders when
a bunch of kids tried to hold up traffic
and not a single one of which was
convicted even of a misdemeanor having
been held in
incarceration over 36 hours
well that's an aside
what ought to have happened in this
nation is
that as mr nixon concentrated
decision-making power in a little
coterie of white house
people immune to congressional inquiry
as he took the government into his own
hands
and out of the hands of the duly
constitutionally
constituted congress of this country
thence when people should have been
aroused
they should have been aroused when a man
who talks about the work ethic
vetoed every single significant bill
that congress passed that would have
enabled people to go back to work
the worst of which was the
bill for establishing child care center
so their mothers would have a
place to leave their children
in safety while they could go to work
and now by executive order
without our shred of constitutional
right to do it
mr nixon declares that the child care
centers even that we did have shall be
abolished in order to save money so that
he can have it for this pentagon
budget that the mr scheinbaum was
talking about
this is when the country should have
been aroused
it should have been aroused when they
saw the impoundment of billions of
dollars on the part of mr nixon and
contrary to
the constitution and depriving congress
of its legislative powers
they should have been aroused when they
found him invading cambodia without a
shred of
congressional right to do it
they should have been aroused when for
reasons that i don't understand
the so-called peace at hand which dr
kissinger
had presumably arranged
never went into effect and instead of
that the war went on
with renewed fury for weeks and months
until we got what an agreement almost
exactly like the one
that dr kissinger had presented in
october
well i must quit
but what i'm trying to say is i'm
relieved that at last the american
people seem to be waking up
to the real purposes of this
administration
but it's a little late and we're doing
it
for reasons that are important as they
can be
but to my mind aren't quite as important
as the ones i've been talking about how
much do we care about people
actually we're in danger of having this
country fall
into the control the people who can buy
elections
people who control our economy through
monopolies almost completely
people who boots are licked
by lots of people that don't have too
much
it's time that we begin to do right in
this country just because it is right
it's time for democrats to realize that
they have got to win the election in 74
and they've got to win the election in
not for the democratic party but for the
future of the united states
i believe we can we didn't really lose
the election in 1972
the democratic party won it our
presidential candidate was defeated
but mr nixon's mandate which he
interprets to mean that he can do
anything he pleases apparently at least
it did
up until recent days
that mandate rest do you know on how
many votes
on the votes of just one third of the
american people
for only 55 percent of the people voted
mr nixon got 60 percent of that 55
percent and if you'll multiply with me
that's 33 percent
the other 67 percent either voted for
mcgovern
or for john schmitz or didn't vote at
all
this isn't any great mandate it
certainly isn't a mandate
to take from congress its legislative
powers
to veto and impound
and repeal the laws of congress that are
of social value to the american people
one after another
and then to declare that if congress
dares to pass a law over a veto
he'll just impound the money anyway
this is executive dictatorship and if it
were
in the hands of an administration
whose skirts were completely clean of
scandal
could be bad enough as it is
it's one of the tragedies of american
history
perhaps the greatest tragedy this
country has faced
we've got to get through it as best we
can
and we can provided the character of the
american people and their compassion for
those
who need their help and their real
search for world peace
and they're giving up the idea that
might makes right
in the world can stand up and be counted
so that the soul of this great country
will assert itself again
and rise above the muck and filth
that some ambitious shielded secret
fellows
in the white house coterie have foisted
on this nation
with or without i do not know the
knowledge
of a man who is supposed to be
a responsible president of the united
states
i now want to introduce
a man who will bring us to
what we have come to call the california
action
in the drug that is richard nixon
some of you will know don freed
he's been very active in this community
for a long time
i have been terribly impressed with him
he is an activist a teacher he's a
teacher of english
of humanities at the otis art institute
he's the publisher he has published many
books
i want to mention just three of them one
are the glass house
tapes which is an interesting metaphor
here but we won't go into it
another is the agony in new haven
and one that is coming out tomorrow and
will be on the book stands
is executive action the esta the
assassination of a head of state
also about two years ago some of you may
have seen it down at the music center in
the mark taper forum
a play by don freed
the u.s versus the name of the play was
inquest
and it was about the case of the u.s
versus
julius and ethel rosenberg
which again was a manifestation of the
same apparatus that brings us here
tonight
he is the recipient of many awards and i
am very glad to introduce don free
thank you it's good to be back in
beverly hills
with uh old friends where we sorted out
many issues of the 1960s
and now the great acts of operation
gemstone which was the formal title
of the watergate affair of which that is
only a corner
swings like a an enormous thresher
back and forth and if some blood is let
we can only stand here to try to give
some coherence to the
chaos in which we find ourselves
there's the tip of the iceberg and
that's the watergate burglary
burglary and the burglary of the
ellsberg psychi
psychiatric office and then there's the
huge
immobile as yet and frozen iceberg
now tonight in just a few moments we can
only talk a little bit
about the tip of the iceberg and about
the iceberg
but i have two guests here who are sort
of guest consultants
to the citizens research and
investigating committee and a new book
we're working on called operation
gemstone
and they of all people i know uh can
give
open a window at least or cast a light
or produce an angle of refraction
towards that frozen monolithic iceberg
which had been bearing down on us
so fast and so hard until events recent
events
called our attention to our own peril
and the steps in self-defense
that we will take now not out of
question of morality
not a question of guilt or evil and not
out of a question of sending somebody to
jail we certainly
would like amnesty for everyone we're
not after a non-entity
like richard nixon though impeachment
may very well be the first step
in a purgation of the american bali
politic we're after much more
so i'm going to introduce our guests and
they're going to talk a little bit about
the iceberg
and then i'm going to bring on some
charts and talk about the tip of the
iceberg and then those who still have
questions and they
will be many i will mention a date in
the future when we will have a lot more
time than this
to discuss at great length this iceberg
and its tip but i would like to remind
you that not only is this not a caper
but it is also not only a small coterie
of men in the white house
we are talking so far about 12 agencies
of government
infiltrated and overtaken with nixon
agents
and those prep powers which nixon
represents and i'm referring to
justice the interior defense
commerce transportation that was eagle
crow
the national security council henry
kissinger himself who by no means
is above this battle and who called on
his long
experience in army intelligence to work
first
uh hiding in pakistan before he flew to
china
and he received kudos for that bit of
espionage and that bit of clandestine
activity but he's not to receive kudos
for the fact that he spied
on his own trusted associates that he
connived
and spied and tried to stand aloof from
this he will be dragged down yet
in this scandal we go on to
the fbi in the central intelligence
agency the situation is so horrible that
where it happening in another country
you would be studying the papers every
morning to see from what direction the
coup was coming
there is the white house staff of course
and the securities exchange commission
we have so far over 36 individuals
at the highest level either indicted or
cashiered
or resigned and a flood of indictments
yet to come
and men to go to prison and others who
will never be
who should go to prison and never will
that's the tip
of the iceberg and there was an east
coast conspiracy
and a west coast conspiracy and over 100
operatives in the field
and 15 million dollars at a conservative
estimate and that is not a budget
for bugging an office or burglarizing a
psychiatric suite
that is a budget for a coup de man and
we will talk about that
when we finish introducing and
discussing
some of the glimpses and parameters of
the iceberg
the first speaker
is peter dale scott and dr scott is a
professor of english
the university of california at berkeley
he's also a political scientist
and he was in the canadian diplomatic
corps before that
he did not put on his notes to me
but i know that he is a translator of
poetry of great sensitivity and uh
although in recent years he has come to
be known for something
beyond poetry and literature his book
the war conspiracy
and his book the politics of escalation
are two of the most important books
of the last decade irreplaceable
footnotes to the
outrage of southeast asia his essay in
the pentagon papers
from a special point of view is
necessary reading
he's been published in the new york
review of books in ramparts magazine in
the nation
and he is the source for many
researchers and writers
uh who are also well known to you he is
the researcher's researcher
he is a kind of gray eminence of the
movement
that is starting to bring some lucidity
i hope in the seventies to the passion
that we generated in the sixties
professor peter dale scott
uh i'd like to begin with what i think
was a
a a rather strangely prophetic quotation
from a law enforcement
man in the federal government who said a
few years back
he said organized crime will put a man
in the white house someday
and he won't even know until
they send him the bill
now with what we've seen happen to
america since world war
ii and in a sense i'm afraid since world
war one
uh it is after all the function of
government to mediate between the real
powers
in society and when organized crime
becomes a real power in society and it
is a real power in society today
then all governors must in one way or
another
deal with the phenomenon of organized
crime
that is not what i'm going to talk about
tonight there are other
men in government who have received
funny contributions
from uh illicit sources
there are some of those even in the
mcgovern campaign when nixon was trying
to shoot down some of the other
democratic candidates
that is not something to attack a man
for and that
is not what i'm going to attack mr nixon
for even though
we have had men like mickey cohen or
louis kung of the china lobby and people
like that admitting that they've put
money into nixon's
campaign funds from time to time in the
past
there are certain things to be explained
and one is
why is it at this time of crisis for the
nation
when nixon is now almost alone he's lost
his whole white house staff he's lost
some of the strongest men in his cabinet
he goes he appears in public with
ziegler who used to be a
a tour guide at disneyland
who does he spend his time with these
days he retires to secret places he goes
to the bahamas
we all know who he's spending his time
with he's spending his time with bibi
raboso
so i will begin and i i don't know if
that's just a joke
frankly i don't i don't think it is i'd
like to say a few words about bibi
raboso whom nixon
first met nobody knows for sure when
either 1948 or 1950 or 1951
apparently because nixon is a good
gambler and
as a gambler has always been at home
down in miami and was very much at home
down there
back in 1948 and 49 and 50
where as you remember it was the first
place that had to be investigated by
senator keith falver and his touring
committee
because it was the hotels and uh and
restaurants and cafes that had been so
infiltrated by organized crime
now bibi raboso made his first money
during the war
recapping tires and he's never had to go
to court for it although
it is now established that he got into
the recap
a tire recapping business by a loan
from somebody who was the in the local
opa tire board and that was clearly a
conflict of interest
nobody's ever had to answer for it one
of
raboso's early and intimate business
associates down there in miami
is a man who did go to court and was
convicted for black market activities
world
in world war ii i only mentioned his
name walter friedrich because raboso
and friedrich have since gone into at
least one business deal
together with richard nixon in the 1960s
bibi raboso makes a friend with somebody
in the small business administration and
there again is a clear conflict of
interest here when
roboso starts getting loans from the
small business administration
and cutting in the local administrator
and some of his land deals which again
involve richard nixon i want to mention
one of those
in particular he gets a loan from the
small
business administration to build a
shopping center for exile cubans in
miami
and the man he puts in there is a former
mayor of havana in the batista era who
in 1968
ends up heading up a committee called
you've guessed it cubans for nixon
what's interesting about this deal is
the man that
robozo chose for his contractor to build
the center he told
chose big al polizzi who also appeared
before
the key fobber committee and although
it's true that mr policy hasn't been in
jail since prohibition
it is also true that the federal bureau
of narcotics was very interested in this
man in the 1960s as they told a
congressional committee he's seen in the
company of top
international narcotics traffickers and
they handed a memo to a congressional
committee in which
about big al policy in which i will
quote
he is one of the most influential
members of the underworld
in the united states now the response
of the raboso people to the bad
publicity about this when they came out
was to say oh he gave us a low bid
but that's not the whole story because
researchers have found many documents
in which bibi raboso has been signing
papers to help
big al polizzi and at least one document
in which big al policy
was signing a petition to help out bibi
raboso
i want to say a little bit also about a
stolen stock deal in 1968 the stock
ended up in bibi raboso's bank
in key biscayne uh the stock had come
from one of the top syndicate fences on
the east coast
the go-between in the deal was one of
the principal figures in the bobby baker
scandals in 1964
who had helped bibi raboso get started
in an earlier year when bibi didn't have
much money
well the stock was clearly stolen and
when the insurance companies sent out a
circular to all the banks in the country
saying watch out for these
this stolen stock uh because we've just
learned it's been stolen after that
circular went out
bibi raboso's bank sold the stolen stock
so they
they didn't run into any trouble they're
now being they've now since been sued by
the insurance companies you might guess
bibi raboso says well we checked out
that stock
we phoned two people one was james
crosby the head
of resorts international that runs a big
casino
in the bahamas that everybody says is
meyer lansky's casino
why would you phone a man like that
about some stolen stock i wonder
who was the other per he phoned two
people about that stock
he made a call out to the west coast to
don nixon the brother of the president
the man who figured in the hughes loan
back in 1958
this is the man who nixon sees today and
more importantly
and i wouldn't have mentioned any of
this if it weren't for the fact that
he's also the man
who has helped nixon made his shrewd
investments in florida real estate
for at least the last 12 years and i'd
like to mention
just two of those deals that we know
about
one was the fisher island deal in uh
in miami harbor this was
a political speculation people had
bought land on this island in the hope
that they could get
the miami city council to build a
causeway out to the island which
obviously if they did
would drive the land values up very much
drive them up very high in the bobby
baker hearings we find a reference to
this island
into this deal because one of the people
who
admitted having transmitted funds as
kickbacks to bobby baker
talked explained his presence in miami
back in 1960 by saying
that the man he represented who was
clint murkisson down in texas the big
oil millionaire
a man who's put money into nixon's
campaigns for many many years
he explained this man tom webb said i
was down in miami because
murkisson and i were interested in
getting a causeway built
and the man who was putting pressure on
the miami city council is a man called
leonard burstin
who i will come back to later but who
was
a man who lobbied frequently for the
murkersons
and for the teamsters and it seems quite
clear that the
merchants were hoping to get a
teamster's pension fund loan
to build that causeway out to that
island all of this figures
because i've been told frequently though
i've never seen it in print
that when mr nixon lived out here in
calif in los angeles he lived in
truesdale estates
which was another real estate deal
funded
by the murkissons with the help of the
teamsters pension
fund well um
uh i i i i'll come back to the name
um the name leonard burstin later
but there's another deal uh that raboso
got nixon into
in ki biscayne which is a much more
suspicious deal because this land
is land that has been churned through
many many successive owners
in the 26 years now since 1946 the end
of world war
ii but at any stage you want to look
you do see links to organized crime
at the very beginning the land was
bought by a cuban
uh emmy gray politician called jose
aleman
he was an emmy gray because according to
cuban source he's he'd stolen
anywhere between 60 million dollars and
170 million dollars
of the cuban official treasury and i'm
not making up these exaggerated figures
if you go back to the press in 1946 47
48 you'll see many public references
to this to this theft and to the fact
that it was
later invested in at least 50 million
dollars worth
of florida real estate then and you can
imagine how much
that would be worth now actually federal
investigators at the time suspected that
the story about stealing the money might
be just a cover
story and that i'm quite serious about
that in fact that a lot of this money
might be money that lucky luciano had
taken out of the country
money that had been made in the
narcotics traffic and was now being
brought back
in under the cover of jose aleman
well whatever it is that land has gone
through many many
owners since then i'll just mention for
example
the law a law firm that was involved in
fending off the internal revenue people
who were very interested in these deals
uh the law one of the lawyers was named
in the key file for hearings for his
role in corrupting the local sheriff of
miami
another partner of that law firm this is
land
dealing with land which is now owned by
richard nixon and
bibi raboso one of the members of that
law firm is today a fugitive from
justice
because of his role in a stock deal
in which he was indicted with none other
than the brother
of the president of resorts
international that bibi raboso
phoned to make sure that his stock
wasn't stolen
another law firm was involved
in included one lawyer who was named to
the bench
by richard nixon uh
and was on the bench in case in time to
hear
the case which involved bibi raboso's
stolen stock
and it was it's no surprise to me at any
rate that he ruled
in favor of the bank of key biscayne
raboso's bank
and against the new york insurance
company that case for sure will be
appealed and i suspect that all of us
will be hearing more about that case
before it is through
the main real estate company that was
involved in churning these deals through
owners after owner
was called keys realty about which many
questions were asked in the key follower
hearings in 1950
and today we're interested in that
company again because one of its vice
presidents
a man called eugenio martinez resigned
in 1971 and set up
his own little real estate venture
called ameritus which many people
suspect was in fact a front for the
watergate
operation because it's certainly a
matter of record now that eugenio
martinez was found in the
democratic headquarters in last june and
has since been convicted
for his part in the watergate conspiracy
well
i could go on and on in this way i i
just to
like to bring it up to the present by
saying that today richard nixon
holds some of that land he didn't
declare the laws for four years
uh and he and uh it now seems that he
didn't
register his ownership of those lots
because he knew very well
that the mortgages on that land were
still being held by a man called arthur
desser
who was very close to the teamsters fund
had bought the land with the help of a
teamsters loan
and had drawn special attention to
himself
by being in 1963 one of the directors
of a bank called the miami national bank
down in miami
which a democratic attorney district
attorney
later established and this has never
been challenged
was while mr desser was a director of it
being used
primarily as a conduit to launder funds
coming
out of myerlansky's casinos in las vegas
and another of the directors at this
time was the same james lawrence king
whom nixon appointed to the bench
there's a very tight
organization there in miami and you
might say well what's the california
connection in that
well i could bring it back to california
in many ways but i only have
as i said 10 minutes and so what i'll do
is just read the first paragraph
of a story which came out recently in
the oakland tribune
who i think can be trusted on this
particular story
uh two nixon x aids linked to teamster
union fund pro
and i'll just read the first paragraph a
former top
white house aide to president nixon who
reportedly raised sizable secret funds
from teamster
union officials some of you may
recognize that is murray chartner
an old friend an old name for many of
you here
um secret campaigns funds
later in the story it says with over a
million dollars from teamster union
officials pension funds and las vegas
gamblers
interceded in the massive federal
investigation of some teamsters leaders
and their associates in the beverly
ridge estates
scandal here in los angeles which i'm
sure many of you remember
who got indicted finally in that scandal
one of the men who got indicted for the
abuse of t
of teamsters pension funds was the same
leonard burstin
who was trying to arrange for the
causeway to be built out to fisher's
island back in 1959 and 1960.
now there was a man called irving
davidson
again a lobbyist for the teamsters a
lobbyist for the murkissons
a registered agent for the foreign
government
of nicaragua and i think i will close by
bringing this back to nixon
by quoting from a letter which irving
davidson as agent for nicaragua sent
to louis somosa the dictator of
nicaragua back in 1960 at the time of
the democratic convention then where he
said
i have made available to the johnson
camp that's the lyndon johnson camp at
the democratic convention
the strength at al of the labor money
delegates hospitality votes etc which i
will make available to the republican
nominee in chicago at the end
of this month the services that i have
made available to them are invaluable
since through 900 locals throughout the
united states i have made available to
them
12 000 militant uh workers
and then a little later uh he sent
another message to samoso saying
uh you can be sure that if it is not
johnson it will be nixon
and we will be with the winner
now i'd like to uh come back to a theme
mentioned by one or two other people
tonight
we mustn't just think it's all nixon or
all haldeman or all erlichmann or all
mitchell
what it really is is the system that
goes to both conventions
and tries to make sure that in both
parties
they have lined up a candidate who will
be subservient in that way who make
these enormous amounts of money
available the significance of the
relatively paltry land deals that nixon
has been involved in
and that i have been talking about
tonight is in that
showing to them that he is available for
these little deals
he has made them he has made himself
their man
he cannot now turn around and attack
them and expose them and that explains
this
spinelessness of the man through the
last
six months and it is uh i think
time i think in in that context to close
i have gone over my
time by repeating what it was that ralph
salerno
said organized crime will put a man in
the white house someday
and he won't even know it until they
send him the bill
i would like to introduce a philosopher
and historian richard popkin from the
university of california
at san diego whose uh sensational series
later incorporated into a book called
the second oswald
made history in the most prestigious
american intellectual
and literary magazine newspaper the new
york review of books
um he his work his research
as a historian and a philosopher uh has
had to take
and give equal place to his work uh in
this
field which has now come to the fore
this decade of conspiracy
from dallas to the watergate dr richard
popkin
thank you for years those of us
who thought it might be the case the
murders of john kennedy
martin luther king robert kennedy and
the wounding of governor wallace
might be the result of some sort of
conspiratorial action
by parties unknown were treated as
paranoid crackpots
every political assassination in the
last decade we were told
was the work of one lone nut lee harvey
oswald james earl ray
searhan sirhan and arthur bremmer
each isolated individuals with no
contacts with anyone
from the day of kennedy's death in 1963
the one lone nut theory became an axiom
of historical explanation
for american events alan dulles
laid head of the cia told the first
meeting of the warren commission
that he had researched the matter back
to early american history
and always found that in america
political assassinations
were always the work of one individual
there were never conspiratorial plots
when dulles was asked about lincoln's
case
he said one man so dominated the plot
that amounted to a one lone nut case
the rest of the world could have
conspiracies but not the united states
we could have the mafia industrial
cartels
but we couldn't have political
conspiracies
when nixon became our president his
legal mentor john mitchell
found types of political conspiracies
unheard of before
in chicago he discovered that people had
never met each other
had never communicated with each other
had conspired to cause riots at the
democratic convention
he found a similar situation in seattle
a little later on
he found that priests and nuns were
conspiring to blow up tunnels in
washington
and to kidnap our leading national asset
henry kissinger
and he found that daniel ellsberg and
tony russo
had conspired to portray the secrets of
the disasters
of our vietnam policy to the american
people
john mitchell despite an eagle eye for
political conspiracy
managed to miss the major ones around
him
the head of his criminal justice
division
had to resign for being part of a bank
scandal in texas
the watergate buggers met in mitchell's
office with him
and he never noticed they were engaged
in the political conspiracy
he helped to pay for the watergate seven
for their trials for their silence and
saw no conspiracy involved we now know
that mitchell was part of a gigantic
conspiracy
to re-elect the president by any means
necessary
as a conspiracy has been revealed up to
this point
we know that began in the wake of the
catastrophic
mitchell directed campaign of 1970
developed through the mitchell directed
persecution new york times
for the publication of the pentagon
papers through a disaster of nixon's
pakistan policy
and the itt scandal a minor conspiracy
to corrupt the justice department
in order to make millions the conspiracy
as known so far involved the political
destruction of democratic candidates
burglary wiretapping the use of the cia
fbi and sec for political purposes
the use of millions collected illegally
from assorted millionaires
and shady businessmen
the sabotaging of the campaign and so on
step by step the watergate conspiracy
achieved its goal
the re-election of the president when
watergate occurred
the official explanation was an expanded
one loan nut theory
mitchell at first said might have been
ordered by one of mccord's private
clients
he actually said this the day after next
we are told it was a third-rate burglary
done by clowns
a caper finally there was seven lone
nuts working in isolation
who for reasons known only to themselves
like to listen to phone calls to
democratic leaders
certainly a bizarre incident then when
the greatest bugger of them all
james mccord decided to spill the beans
nixon told us there were startling new
developments
although the president has not seen fit
to tell us what these were
we now know that these included the
confirmation of mccord's story
and the confession of magruder as well
as dean's decision to reveal watergate
west
the robbery of dr fielding's office in
the period of one month we've been
treated to the revelation
of the most high level conspiracy
criminal conspiracy in american history
directed by the chief aides of the
president involving the chiefs of the
fbi and the cia
top operatives of the latter the leaders
of the justice department
nationwide sabotage squads and who knows
who else
all this involving the commission of all
sorts of felonies
done to re-elect the president the
rationale for the amazing events
as far as we've been told was that the
president went into
a fury about the fact that some people
opposed him
we're told he can't stand criticism
can't stand people
except for erlichmann haldeman and
proposal
and his family
hospital had to be destroyed because
quote the president got angry
the picture we now have is the president
has been and still is
a completely isolated individual who
never reads the newspapers or watches tv
except for the washington redskins game
the president has violent reactions and
then acts in unpredictable ways
all this adds up to the president being
one
lonely nut
presiding over a fantastic
conspiratorial apparatus
that sees its opposition as a paranoid
conspiracy
to be destroyed by any means legal or
otherwise
in view of what is already public
knowledge the ins
conspiracy involved keeping teddy
kennedy from running
weakening senators musky humphrey and
jackson
framing ellsberg and russo pushing for
mcgovern in eagleton's nomination
destruction of eagleton the arrangement
the sabotage of the campaign
then the conspiracy went on corrupting
the head of the fbi and lots of others
to obstruct justice
after nixon's statement in august about
dean's report
and kleindy's claim that the
investigation of the watergate
was the most thorough one since the
warren commission
everyone should have been alerted
a thought is sweeping the country is
such a monumental conspiracy could have
been going on involving top officials
and the fbi and the cia financed by
money of millionaires
all over the country then maybe maybe
four major events that determine the
history of the last decade
the shootings john kennedy martin luther
king robert kennedy and governor wallace
might also have been the results of such
conspiracies
each case was quickly closed declared
the result of the actions of an isolated
power
powerless nut but now that we know the
level of conspiratorial activity
perhaps the many loose ends
inconsistencies in these areas
are due to similar conspiracies many
important people
are now considering these possibilities
to speak the unspeakable
has occurred to many the conspiracy to
re-elect the president
would not have worked without the
shooting of governor wallace
the conspiracy might have resulted in
mcgovern's nomination
as box campaign but if governor wallace
had also run
we would not know tonight who had been
elected the votes would still be
being counted scenarios like that in don
freed and mark lane's novel executive
action
might have seen far out when written
last year mainly the idea that the c i a
right-wing politicians and texas
millionaires
might have conspired to kill the
president
now is such a scenario implausible or
even improbable
all sorts of crimes were committed to
reelect the president
why not to change presidents some still
shrink and say robbery bugging
perjury are not like killing yet we know
that a branch of our government
engages in political assassination
outside the country
the former head of the political
assassination division of the cia
mr colby has just last week been
nominated to head the cia
at the moment i know only of a few items
that suggest a connection the watergate
and the previous political
assassinations but in each of the
assassinations
there's much that remains suspicious and
investigators have met
with almost total frustration by the
governmental authorities
in gaining access to information courts
have refused to entertain motions for
re-hearings
even the most suspicious case that germs
are already
much material regarding john kennedy
still is classified
it's time to demand a reopening of all
four cases
so we can discover whether or not we've
been living in a
continuous conspiracy or a continuous
series of conspiracies from dallas to
watergate
we must retain regain confidence in
and control over our government part of
this will involve the fate of our
president
i like others think the lonely nut could
be impeached for what is now known
but given the unprecedented nature of
the situation
i'm trying to start a suit to annul the
last election
on grounds of fraud and theft of the
election
my lawyer judge roger ruffin of san
diego
is prepared to launch the suit with
other lawyers and plaintiffs will join
with us
if we can go back a year or a decade
maybe we can finally go forward
and work on our genuine and basic social
problems
so let's found a committee to diselect
the president
thank you i now will only describe three
charts
which give you the roughest kind of
overview of operation
gemstone this is the chain of command
and it's laid out like an espionage or
intelligence network
for it's as if a group were invading
the united states from within in order
to bring about a coup de man that is a
stealthy fatal blow
from within the government for it had
nothing to do finally
with the re-election of the president
since he led in the polls
by enormous numbers after the wallace
assassination attempt
it had to do with power not re-election
for four more years
if you remember the reichstag fire was
engineered
by the third reich after not before
but after hitler was chancellor he was
already chancellor
what he was not yet was dictator here we
have organized crime corrupt unions big
business and intelligence fronts their
creature is nixon mitchell is his
internal security agent and a
gyroscopic career that covers the
funding
and the network and chain of command
but the two station chiefs to stick to
the
clandestine vocabulary are on the
we have here the west coast holdem and
the station chief
uh shaping the executive cut off strong
the field cut off
segrete the control and on the west
coast were to be black
chicano and jesus freaks hired his arjun
provocateur in san diego
to cause violence in the streets while
explosions took place with inside the
convention hall
at which point evidence would have been
found in the democratic national
committee in washington
on forged letterhead which would have
made the election
nothing but a mechanical gesture
as they would in all effects have been
canceled the country
nixon's overwhelming mandate would have
gone forward
and e howard hunt and james mccord
were far more than simple ex-fbi and cia
agents they were super agents each of
who sat
on pentagon national security committees
who were to come to life in times of
crisis and emergency
to censorship in the censorship of news
and the round up of dissidents
and rebellious elements now i'm
paraphrasing
the sad sad group mccord and hunt until
the day
of their arrests sat on special pentagon
emergency committees the east coast
is charles coulson liddy is the
executive cut off
hunt the field cut off record the
control and the field agents from the
east coast
were to be anti-castro cubans as you've
seen
and young americans for freedom those
same forces now who've intervened in the
bradley campaign
to try to make jane fonda the issue and
to try to create a number of provocative
incidents
to distract both from watergate
nationally the bradley campaign locally
hunt is one of the founders of young
american for freedom young americans for
freedom
as were other right-wing central
intelligence agency elements
coulson and we could perhaps get into
this and a larger discussion
in a few weeks from now polson in my
opinion was the professional he hired
hunt
the other super agent coulson is a
double agent he was named
you noticed yesterday on the television
hearings when they said
what was mr colson's job he was liaison
from the committee to reelect the
president to who said wyker all to the
american legion to other groups
he was liaison to far more other groups
than the american legion
and it is coulson alone who may escape
indictment it is coulson who set some of
these others up moral
morons that they are they did not dream
up operation gemstone it was
professional
it was military it was war and it was
done by professionals
and then venal ambitious and ideological
fanatics
men like holdemon ehrlichman dean fools
and knaves and ideologues were used and
acted on it
and furthered it and they have been
caught and they will be indicted and
they will go to jail whether the mystery
man charles coulson
with his links to the neo-fascist
elements in this country
will go we'll be exposed or not we do
not know
that's something that we have to be
concerned with and not just the cover-up
next is the cash flow the lines in green
is cash
it comes from organized crime corrupt
unions big business and intelligence
fronts
it's washed it goes in to stand safe and
hold them and safe
and then the conduits are combat and
sagretti on the west coast
lydia and barker on the east coast
here's the cover-up chart
uh nixon and ziekler at the head the
white house cover-up the burning and
destruction of files
is holdem and erlich mundine peterson
and the justice department
the covert uh the buying off of people
the summer nation of perjury and the
in the case of dorothy hunt as in the
case of deena beard
and martha mitchell the three acts of
violence so far
one of them resulting in a death are the
three women who have been the victims of
acts of violence
dorothy hunt is dead but mitchell
magruder come back hunt
during the dead dorothy hunt and she was
the link to the contract
agents in the middle from ziegler is
colson again
the yaf right-wing media and overt
public propaganda
the attempt to destroy uh
senator irvin the attempt to make the
pentagon papers jane fonda
and others the attempt to say that there
would be riots in the street
and that there would be that there would
be violence in san diego
and in miami that same blind mindless
mechanical
paranoid anti-communism or
anti-insurgency
which is justified a quarter of a
century of cold war was of course as
friends for non
the third world psychoanalyst predicted
in the third phase of violence it comes
home to the mother country
richard nixon was the creature in the
conduit for the violence that america
has visited
in pitiless and remorseless style and
fashion for 25 years
it's flowed it's backed up now it's been
reversed in the field
by the enormous victories of the people
in indochina
it's flowed backward to america and is
now washing over us
and we are bound hand and foot now like
so many natives
in so many foreign countries and we now
too
can strip off those those bounds we
cannot fall lower
america's become the name of a nervous
disease and this tip of the iceberg
and the huge monolith of the iceberg
that professors pop could and scott have
described to us
should be just the first step in
bringing information to the people
acting coherently and logically talking
with groups in churches in lodges
in our political parties in our
political clubs in our neighborhoods
knowing the right to know and the need
to know and then taking many many steps
the first of which is the expungement
from american life
of these scum who have bombed women and
children abroad and duped the american
public at home
tonight you will hear participants from
our previous watergate special
donald freed and richard popkin expand
their analysis and scenarios on the
watergate conspiracy
mr freed has written executive action a
novel a fact about the assassination of
president kennedy
he sees a link between the death of
kennedy and the present-day political
sabotage
professor popkin shares this belief in a
conspiracy being responsible for the
1963 assassination
he also sees a conspiratorial link
between watergate
and the deaths of robert kennedy martin
luther king and the attempted murder of
george wallace
some of this information that you will
hear tonight will actually be a preview
of the senate select committee's
hearings
which will be broadcast live on kpfk
this program was produced by stephen
blum
the watergate break-in was nothing but a
dramatic incident
that was a convenient rallying point for
the media
the tip of the iceberg began with the
watergate break-in
the iceberg itself has to be seen as a
vast and monolithic superstructure i'm
talking now only about the tip of the
iceberg
operation gemstone has to be described
in the terminology and diagram of a
clandestine
intelligence operation exactly as one
would describe a coup de man
a stealthy attempt from within the
government
to take power not electoral power not
simply four more years
but the kind of power which no democracy
with its checks and balances allows
now the
superstructure that i've abstracted on
this chart
and indeed on all of them is organized
crime
corrupt unions big business a kind of a
label especially for the
national uh organizations
and intelligence fronts the intelligence
front in operation gemstone
is the committee to re-elect the
president
nixon and mitchell nixon is of course
the
representative in every way of these
forces and has been so
since he first answered a classified ad
to run for congress those
many years ago one of the sponsors of
that ad is about to be indicted he's
from san diego and
dr popkin will talk about him mitchell
played the role of internal security the
president's agent that is to say
who was responsible for monitoring
what came in and what flowed out of the
white house
the east coast
is represented here by charles colson
he would be the equivalent of a station
chief
in the way that in a foreign country a
diplomat is a diplom
represents the united states interests
but the central intelligence agency will
work out of the american embassy in a
foreign country
and from there the clandestine the
training of police
the various propaganda operations uh
will go forward
and of course these activities center
around usually
elections in these countries
as in chile for example coulson would be
the equivalent then of the station chief
the man in charge of plans
and it's as if of course that we were
simply
natives and or colonized subjects
and a group of settlers or
neocolonialists were organizing
in a clandestine manner from within the
country and from within the government
to set
a to to take to set in motion the
equivalent
american style of a military push or a
coup de man but it would be from within
the government
from within power itself in the same way
that the reichstag incident was staged
after hitler was chancellor not before
but after
he was already chancellor he had the
majority of the vote
what he did not have was dictatorial
power
and that is why long after nixon ran way
ahead of mcgovern in the polls
it was not stupidity that kept this
operation gemstone in motion
the winning and the reelection of the
presidency was only a minor and first
step
in operation gemstone under colson comes
gordon liddy and he would be known
in clandestine terms as the executive
cut off
and you can see that it took the most
intense pressure to break this
compartmentalization
down liddy for the longest time
was the beginning and the end of the
conspiracy and so the government argued
before judge sarika the
compartmentalization held
until mccord broke under
liddy is hunt the field cut off
and under hunt is mccord the control
or agent handler the man who runs the
contract agents in the field and
under mccord on the east coast of course
were yaf
young americans for freedom anti-castro
cubans
uh and some other right-wing uh forces
almost all associated with the central
intelligence agency not as employees
none of these people
exist in the central intelligence agency
files they are what are called contract
agents they do not exist on paper
on the west coast haldeman is the
station chief and
when these charts are revised erlachmann
will be in that little box
with him but
holdeman and erlichmann are the
equivalent of the
diplomat at an american mission
or at an american embassy the diplomatic
representation of the white house
coulson is the professional
the super conspirator holdemon and the
others
are shall we say consummate and
brilliant amateurs
but they are amateurs and although they
did everything to finance and forward
and cover up operation gemstone
they did not think it up there was
plenty of input as they like to say
in the advertising agencies that spawned
men like
haldeman and ziegler and dean
and others but this conspiracy is my
argument
in the argument of the citizens research
and investigating committee
is the work of a professional the
professionals
are colson and hunt basically
with mccord as the technician
holdemon and erlichmann then would be
the equivalent of ambassadors or
diplomats
chapin would be the executive cut-off
for the west coast
wing of operation gemstone um
uh chapin and strawn rather it would be
the field cut offs
chapin the executive cut off strong the
field cut off donald segretti the
controller agent handler
and he would run the agents on the west
coast the contract agents those
would have been black chicano jesus
freaks
they were being hired they were being
organized
the final act the bottom line of
operation gemstone
were riots in the streets in san diego
sponsored by arjun provocateur
and violence through the use of
explosives with inside the convention
hall
this violence would have been laid at
the door of anti-war
liberal left radical mcgovern forces
the proof the proof would have been
a variation on the pentagon papers theme
information in the democratic national
committee headquarters in washington at
watergate would have been leaked from
the files
tying mcgovern to
these forces where would this
information have come from
and this is new information tonight that
information was being planted
on june 16 17 1972
when mccord and the others in evening
clothes
and rubber gloves were arrested at
gunpoint
that operation gemstone was aborted and
we saw only
vestigial evidence of it when agnew and
others
with the vietnam veterans against the
war attempted to point out
provocation coming from anti-war forces
of course it did not materialize
and they knew it would not and so the
use widespread use of ajahn provocators
when san diego because of itt and other
reasons had to be given up
and the movement was to miami where the
demonstrations could be controlled
more perfectly then cubans and young
americans for freedom
replaced black chicano and jesus freaks
the contract arjun provocateurs from the
west coast
this would in effect have cancelled the
elections there would have been an
election but you can expect nixon to
have gotten
95 to 99 percent of the vote had
gop notables lost their lives in
explosions
inside the gop convention and proof been
leaked from the dnc
that this was tied to mcgovern in all
intents and purposes
the operation gemstone would have been
in high gear
and from the pow extravaganza
they would have gone directly into the
american revolutionary bicentennial
program
which was to use thai and labor unions
students
schools service groups churches
armed forces groups american legion
groups
business industry banking savings and
loan
decals would have been spread across the
country any group
or individual without a decal would have
been highly visible
as being an american it would have been
made the mccarthy era
look like peanuts because instead of
identifying unamerican elements
it would simply have identified american
elements
and that is a feta complete and the
american bicentennial which was
which has not come until 1976 was
precisely for that reason begun four
years early
in 1972. and the
is would have eventuated in parades in
extravaganzas
in torchlight uh demonstrations the
lenny rifenstahl films of hitler germany
in the 30s were being studied
by the committee for the american
bicentennial
and we could have looked forward to
enormous sports stadium
spectaculars with lights
and flags and excitement
not to say hysteria that would have been
modeled
very closely on the spectaculars of the
third reich in germany
in the 1930s that was the plan to go
from gemstone
to the pows to the bicentennial
but it was aborted uh partially and we
now
have some small insight and we
must seize this lever this
thin end of the wedge which the media
and other forces
have developed and push as never before
the next chart is the cash flow
again organized crime corrupt unions big
business
intelligence front the money is washed
as they say in clandestine vocabulary
uh part of it goes into the broken line
is the washed money
it goes from stands to aldermen into
combat
on the west coast the primary conduit is
haldeman
the president's personal council at
kambak to sagretti
to the field agents and these coast its
liddy
to barker the cuban to the field agents
the money you can speak forever about it
it goes as deep and as broad as you wish
to discuss
that's just a very high order
abstraction of some of the cash flow
it goes up over 10 million dollars for
operation
gemstone approximating a third of the
some 50 million dollars raised for the
re-election of the president
over 10 million dollars and over a
hundred field agents
identified at this point this is proof
positive
that we are not contemplating a budget
or
an itinerary or the recruitment for a
break-in
of several offices one in beverly hills
one in washington several in new york
the break the break-in uh is is the not
even the tip of the iceberg
the last chart is the cover-up
and which is still in motion
uh through from the white house itself
through ziggler missing on there is viva
of course and the pow which has to be
prominently
described
through coulson the master of propaganda
through young americans for freedom viva
right-wing media that's the open
overt propaganda campaign to cover up
the attempt to get jane fonda the
attempt to shift the headlines
and so forth that battle has partially
already been lost by the white house and
that of course is what is fatal
uh that's why it's terribly important
that the urban plan
of a slow steady development means
everything
because in ratio to the amount of time
that elapses now
is how much can come out the covert
on the white house the burning and
destruction of documents of course goes
haldeman ehrlichman dean gray peterson
and the justice department that's the
outright covert
destruction of evidence the buying off
the the use of money of bribery and of
threats
runs down from mitchell
to magruder combat
hunt dorothy hunt also a longtime cia
agent
howard hunt's wife who's dead uh
evidence points to her
having been murdered as she tried to get
out of operation gemstone
and was talking to the press beginning
to talk to the press
she's dead and from there to the
contract agents who were some of them
already in jail
some of them around the country waiting
to see whether they would be paid off
at this point i'll
save whatever else i have to say for a
question and answer period
and uh introduce uh someone to you who's
a really very extraordinary person um
he's well known for his book which was a
really a classic of
meticulous research the second oswald
which was serialized in the new york
review of books and published by avon
and was
a was the one book that dealt in a
popular sense
uh for those who didn't understand
ballistics and logistics and the
scientific data of dallas the second
oswald
was a shocking and um unarguable
uh uh proof of a conspiracy uh but
besides he happens to be a very
well-known philosopher and historian and
um
formerly head of the philosophy
department at ucsd
and a very wide-ranging career indeed in
politics and literature and history and
philosophy
and someone you're going to enjoy very
much i think and who it's my pleasure to
unleash now
professor richard popkin
thank you and each time one
talks about the watergate can't tell
what the state of the
argument is unless you heard the car
radio a minute ago
and so uh i spoke up in los angeles
two weeks ago but i think things have
moved so fast and so far that
i'd like to deal with a different aspect
of it first today
i think we'll be dealing with another
aspect a week or so from now
what seems to be the central issue which
is going to be the bombshell of next
week
is what is referred to in the original
introduction
this 1970 plan to
get rid of all the opponents in the
united states
the plan was stolen from the white house
by mr dean
and placed in the safe deposit box
keys were given the judge sarika the
white house
first apparently didn't know what he had
stolen i'm not sure they
know to this day all that he's stolen
since they seem to be mainly concerned
about one document
and they gingerly start asking for their
papers back
good old judge sarika offered them their
papers back after he xeroxed him
and gave a set
to the irwin committee and senator
simonton's committee
it's through symington that we're
beginning to get some clues as to what
this is all about
senator simonton said on the 22nd of may
this is the most fantastic document i've
ever read
he's given a couple of interviews to st
louis post dispatch
and some to the new york times and the
washington post
in the meantime as nixon and his friends
appreciate what
had been taken nixon we're told
in the latest issue with time magazine
got all that remains of his staff his
few remaining friends
to work feverishly on this incredible
4000 word document that was issued last
week
and it's the first time the history of
the presidency of the united states and
anything like this has happened
the president has been issuing a
lawyer's brief won't discuss it
but has to make sure it's on the record
before things move too fast
nixon says i don't know if people had
the patience to go through it but one
third of it
of the document is on the stolen paper
of mr dean
and nixon says in his statement the
documents spelling out this 1970 plan
are extremely sensitive they include and
are based upon
assessments of certain foreign
intelligence capabilities and procedures
which of course must remain secret
and if one reads through nixon's
description of the importance of keeping
this secret
the main point of his talk or at least
one of the major points
is to try and keep this a classified
secret document
since nixon's talk there have been
analyses of it
in new york times in the washington post
in time newsweek the london observer all
based upon
leaked information as to what's in this
1970 plan
and just today this morning we heard
that senator irvin
is just horrified having read for the
first time what this 1970 plan is
senator wyker yesterday was giving a
commencement address in connecticut on
it
and weiker says about it we've heard in
recent days
there's a slogan within elements of the
justice department
that the constitution is not meant to be
a suicide pact
and the rewriting of it in the 1970 plan
is to make sure it's not a suicide pact
for certain people
but what's the plan as far as we know
from new york times has published four
articles on it the washington post has
had several
time magazine goes through a fairly
careful
putting together of it without ever
quoting it
that the plan as nixon tells us grew out
of
a catastrophic situation in 1970
when the fbi had stopped taking
the white house seriously on what it was
supposed to investigate
and then new york times has gotten a
fair amount of background that nixon
they couldn't get the fbi to take it
seriously
then try to get the cia the cia
found that what was supposed to be
investigated was to find out
the foreign sources of the revenue of
the students
the black panthers and the arabs in
america
and for some reason the arabs in america
figure very large in this as we'll see
in a moment
the cia sent nixon
a 200-page analysis of what he was
asking for
trying to teach them some elementary
sociology
that the country was in ferment because
there are problems in the country
that racism happens go on and some
people don't like it
that the vietnam war was going on and
the students didn't like it
and hence they didn't needs foreign
support
foreign agitation they had enough local
problems to get them started
with the fbi and the cia refusing to
cooperate were then told
by nixon that the matter was so serious
that he called an emergency meeting of
all the chiefs of intelligence
of the two large agencies the fbi and
the cia
the national security agency defense
intelligence agency
and some other small secret ones
to sit around and figure out what to do
they drafted a plan
hoover was the head of the committee
which was sent to the president most of
the work in the plan is by the manners
referred to in your introduction mr
houston
in which they were going back were told
to procedures
that had been carried on in this country
from 1941
to 66 procedures which senator simonton
called
a license for unlimited burglary
nixon called with a new euphemism that
will go down history
a means of surreptitious entry
the plan apparently was to burglarize
all the opponents and to burglarize
embassies
that might be giving the money it's also
a plan to intercept the mail
cut off communications and whatever else
was necessary
and i think we're going to find some
rather amazing things because
both simington and irwin have promised
to print the plan next week
but we're told what they were doing was
a series of activities that had been
going on in this country
by the fbi from 1941 to 66
that they were stopped in 1966 almost
casually
by ramsey clark when he was asked by the
fbi if they minded if he burglar
if they burglarized another embassy
and he reports he told him it's illegal
it's unconstitutional
and wrote it all out for him and hoover
kept his letter
possibly kept it under his pillow but
had it with him in 1970 when nixon
wanted to start this all over again
that hoover wrote a series of objections
to
the order
and these objections include the news he
got from ramsey clark
that all happens to be illegal
time magazine indicates that the
purloined paper of mr dean
is hoover's copy that's a copy with
annotations by hoover
and so all the reasons he's giving for
why he won't do it
it went to the president
or at least since nobody talks to the
president we have reason to believe it
went to the president the copy is marked
the president's copying not either mr
haldeman erlichman's or
mitchell's or anybody else but the copy
that's in existence is the president's
copy
so we don't went to him we don't know
whether he read it
any rate uh he issued the order in spite
of all of hoover's objections
and hoover just apparently
refused to do anything about it five
days later the order was withdrawn and
the president says baldi
was never implemented and since it was
never
implemented were then told in a
background story in the new york times
that crisis broke out as to what the
hell were they going to do if they
couldn't
carry on their business this way and the
crisis
as reported by president's present
council mr
garment was they were convinced
the arabs in this country are about to
do something awful i can't
and if one remembers the world if you
see another xerox page
the world of summer in 1970 number of
arabs in america was not
a very large number
but in spite of this as the garment
reports
that we're going to have meetings here's
a page
uh try and settle a middle east question
here we were on the eve of mideast talks
with information
the arab commandos were going to start
killing leaders in the jewish community
in america
what were we going to do were helpless
so what he says what they did is they
asked
the israelis about it and the suggestion
in the
interview is not only ask the israelis
the israelis
did it burglarized whatever embassy had
to be burglarized
and quieted down their nerves for a
moment
but in quieting down their nerves
they then found a state of affairs
in which the major intelligence agencies
wouldn't accept the paranoid
interpretation of the world
that was emanating from the white house
and
the white house wasn't going to give up
its paranoid interpretation
and so it's from this that various
agencies we just discovered existing
came into being
the internal evaluation services
and the intelligence evaluation service
and
something else which mccord stumbled
upon was getting
memos from and jack anderson's been
publishing their memos
which are extremely paranoid about the
riot in san francis
san diego which they're talking about
half a million people coming to san
diego
they're buying thousands of guns and
making armored tanks
this whole scheme and the paranoia
that's involved in it
actually begins with nixon's arrival on
the scene
first thing mitchell gets involved in as
head of the justice department is a
decision in the supreme court in 1969
about wiretapping supreme court rules
against
mitchell's side and mitchell
unlike any other secretary
of the justice department before him
interferes with the process of the
supreme court
and we've learned he sent somebody
around to try and get the supreme court
to reconsider the case on the grounds
there is national security
that they didn't realize supreme court
refused to consider it
so mitchell made a decision that
it was up to him to decide whether
national security warranted wiretapping
and took from 1969 to 1971
to get the court to decide that mitchell
can't write the laws himself
they have to be passed by somebody and
it doesn't happen to be a law which says
that the justice department has the
right
to wiretap who it wants so from 1969 to
we know he was doing it and was doing it
partly because of these leaks from the
government
but mainly it appears because of that
panic about
the blacks the students and the counter
culture
and one element which i think is going
to loom large in this
that one of the things that starts
immediately along with nick
mitchell's desire to wiretap is the
repression of the drug culture
and operation intercept which is
september 1969
is part of this overall scheme to
suppress
all the tendencies that nixon and his
friends couldn't stand
and i think we're going to find that
some of what was going on
in the background of operation gemstone
is involved
with the drug problem the story appeared
a couple of weeks ago in the
washington post that within the first
month that nixon was in office
some leading pharmacologist was called
to washington
and told by eagle crow later one of the
plumbers
that if he didn't agree with the white
house
on what to do about the drug problem and
the pharmacologists
from cornell had the view that one
should treat it as a medical problem
and investigate it medically he was told
if he didn't agree with the white house
as a police problem
that the white house would destroy him
where eagle crows words to him and
apparently they went ahead
and tried to destroy the research of
anybody who didn't agree with them
well it's all these efforts to get
control
of the opposition they saw that after
the fbi
the cia wouldn't cooperate then they
start creating
their own units and then we're told
that our president went out of his mind
got absolutely furious didn't know what
this
man ellsberg was likely to do if he'd do
something as terrible as
give new york times those papers god
knows what else he might do
and they immediately had to go find out
what sort of a demon they were dealing
with
and hence dispatch of hunt lydia and the
cubans to
los angeles to go get into the
psychiatrist
apparently when the fbi asked the
psychiatrist was ellsberg crazy and he
wouldn't discuss the case
that wasn't enough so they had to find
out more
and hunts uh what's the term they use
they had to find out
about his prosecutability
since they seem to thought he really was
crazy
anybody who would do something in this
order and as a result of ellsberg
that we get the plumbers and no agency
other than the one in the white house is
sufficient to deal with this
and from then on the plumbers are going
around burglarizing
and we're gradually finding out more and
more burglaries i think we're up to five
and it seems from the scheduling of
these things
that hunt never took a day off and
any day he was in a city where his place
worth burglarizing
they did it and something i'm baffled
about it
in terms of your charts in terms of our
uh general
view that hunt must be the best spy this
country had
he always burglarizes with a crowbar
but the job that was done in los angeles
it was done in the watergate that was
done in the
naacp headquarters in new york it was
greenspun safe in las vegas are all done
with crowbars and they just make a mess
out of the place
and there's absolutely no effort to
hide the fact that the robbery has gone
on and what's surprising is
given the amount of robbery that occurs
everybody
except for the democrats assumed it was
normal robbery
and made nothing out of it and now
suddenly everybody's realizing that
their robbery
was something more significant and we're
beginning to get the pattern
out of this well with all this set up
then we start getting the actual
operation gemstone
and i think the operation the actual
stems from the 1970 campaign
that mr mitchell who i think will find
is much more the evil genius of all this
than
he now appears since the present stage
of the
argument it's mr dean leaking a lot of
information as to what's wrong with
haldeman and erlichmann and next stage
after we get done with the dean 1970
paper
then i think we'll get back to what's
wrong with mr mitchell
and mr mitchell was nixon's campaign
manager for 1970
in which the republicans were going to
gain control of
congress they were going to gain control
of congress
by this law and order campaign of
suppressing the counter culture
and you may remember the campaign came
to a bad
end in san jose when nixon appeared in a
parade
a riot occurred somebody a so-called
riot somebody threw a rock at him
took the reporters about an hour to find
out it's a paid rock thrower
and the san jose riot failed to be
this one that don describes that was
going to take place at san diego
where they'd really have a riot the last
day of the campaign
consisted of two speeches nixon
raving in phoenix on tv about this riot
in san jose
need for law and order and so on and
then after him
mr musky sitting calmly by his seafront
in maine
about how we should be reasonable
consider the problems of this country
and so on
and the contrast between this raving
maniac
and muskie then made it appear to the
voters
as the polls indicated that mr musky
was going to be the next president of
the united states
at this point we get what has now been
labeled by
charles taft the son of senator taft
in his report of the fair practices
affair campaign practices committee that
was issued last weekend
a conscious conspiracy to violate laws
to manipulate voters
and to make a mockery of the democratic
system of self-government
mr taft's committee has published a long
report
giving the details as to how they did it
in which
structured first to make sure muskie
couldn't be a candidate
senator kennedy couldn't be a candidate
muskie
were beginning to see was destroyed by
these fake letters
by various people sent to break up musky
meetings
to disarrange a schedule to antagonize
voters
and i think a month or two we're going
to find
thousands of what don calls contact
agents here
who were doing nasty little things which
had the effect
of getting rid of all of muskie's
strength because it did appear
sort of amazing the muskie
began 1972 as a sure winner in the
democratic
convention and then couldn't carry the
polish ward in milwaukee or philadelphia
so the job was really thorough kennedy
never got off the ground as a candidate
and the indication of why he didn't is
that
in mr hunt's papers that were given to
mr gray to guard
and later to burn one is the fake cables
about
late president kennedy the other is a
file called chappaquiddick
and nobody's asked hunt yet as far as i
know
what was in the file about
chappaquiddick i've asked him about the
cable and he's gone into
lovely detail which i'll mention some
things about in a moment
also mr caulfield who you may have
enjoyed last week
new york cop who looks like he's from a
grade b
night night movie who works on divorce
cases and blackmails people
and he calls up the white house from pay
phones and things
that's his story that he got called up
in the motel in san clemente
he's told to go out and put a dime in
the booth and call up the white house
the western white house to get his
instructions
but caulfield also says he was working
on chappaquiddick
but nobody again asked him what is he
working on
so we know of caulfield and hunt
gathering enough crap about this
to scare kennedy away from being a
candidate
muskie got sandbagged through zegretti's
activities and other people's
and i recently i heard just yesterday
that they've been able to find that both
hunt and segretti
were in san diego back in february and
march of 1972
arranging for people to disrupt
musky's campaign if he ran the
california primary
so things seem to have been organized
fairly far in advance
and got the job done as
the election season went on it wasn't
all roses for nixon
the itt scandal was blowing up
jack anderson was publishing very
damaging documents
and the plumbers had to make sure that
the democratic party was as weak as
possible
it's in may the two remarkable events
occur
one that a leading candidate who would
have made nixon's election probably
impossible
george wallace suddenly gets shot and
can't run for public office anymore
if wallace hadn't been shot we'd still
be counting the vote
and still be trying to figure out who
won the election that he would have
gotten a third of the vote
nixon would have gotten around a third
and mcgovern around a third
so just fortuitously one candidate who
really mattered
gets knocked off by as usual one lone
nut
and who gets very quickly tried declared
insane but not so insane they can't lock
him up for life
and is cut off and all information about
him is cut off
the other amazing event is
the burglarizing and the bugging of the
democratic headquarters
the explanation we've been given of this
by the two participants who have
appeared on tv
mccord and barker mccord
explains how he's given all this news
about the riot in san diego
the menace building up to the republican
party
and his job as security officer for the
republican party what else could he do
but try and find out
whether it's all real and mccord
was tantalizing the senators by telling
him he's getting these daily reports
from the intelligence evaluation service
and nobody asked him what these things
say
unfortunately jack anderson is telling
us what they say and they're just
absolutely screaming about the problems
of this riot in san diego
barker i think is more a comedy relief
to it
but barca's testimony indicates
that the team got sold on the view must
be relevant to national security
the national security somehow must be
what's at issue
barca tells us what he the information
he's given about national security
was the cubans were financing mcgovern
they're sending 10 to 20 million dollars
so they break into the headquarters and
barker admits that
they're either in the wrong office so
there's no such data but since they're
in an office he might as well do
something
so he starts burglarizing
and you may remember the marvelous scene
when one of the senators asked barker if
you can really believe
that the burglarizing of the democratic
headquarters has something to do with
liberating cuba
and barker says sometimes i get confused
about these matters
but he's sure he says that if mr hunt
was for it
must have something to do with national
security
of national security which all this is
enveloped in from the time they get into
office
is a real issue if there really is
something we're supposed to be worried
about
if the country is coming apart or there
are foreign menaces and so on
why can't it be explained why can't they
actually state what the problem is and
what has to be done to safeguard the
country and find out if people want the
country saved or not
if they want it saved
what price it'll take to save it instead
of
explaining it this quotation i gave you
from
wyker's speech yesterday that people
regard the
um the constitution
as a suicide pact if it really is a
suicide pact in this day and age and
it's perfectly possible a document
written in
1787 isn't really applicable in 1973
then some real effort should be made to
consider
what the state of affairs is what laws
we do need
if we're really in danger what
constitutional changes
ought to be made instead nothing like
this gets proposed
instead we're told the government was
helpless they had to do something to
defend national security
so they do all these illegal things
instead of trying to explain for the
congress to the populace
that we're really in a bind and a fix
and we need new
laws the couple of attempts to explain
the problem
was so preposterous they didn't convince
anybody
the first attempt to explain the problem
was in the case
of the government of mitchell against
the new york times
when new york times started printing the
pentagon papers
remember mitchell rushed in the court to
try and get
the first injunction in american history
against
a prior publication and
in court after court as new york times
was stopped in
boston globe and the washington post and
the los angeles times and all the papers
took on the job of printing the
documents
in court after court mitchell tried to
explain why it was necessary
when they finally you know a couple of
days got it up to the supreme court
a supreme court doctored by mr nixon
with lots of his friends on it they
still got a unanimous verdict against
them
they couldn't convince anybody
in contrast to this state of affairs
where they're arguing about national
security
and can't make reasonable conservative
people believe it
we just seen a case in england where two
ministers had to be removed because
their sex lives
that the prime minister of england
immediately explained to commons what
the problem was
everybody agrees it's unfortunately it's
a problem they have to solve it right
away
and they've appointed an independent
commission that everybody trusts
and there's no uproar at all about the
problem anymore
the cases were now being offered which
are enveloped in the
last week's testimony of national
security
revolve around the laundering of a
hundred thousand dollars of a texas oil
millionaire's money that was sent from
houston to mexico city
to mr stands to mr barker and
day after day we're being told that this
is the point at which
the cia had to stop the fbi from
investigating the watergate
and yesterday's testimony of mr
ellickman i think really
indicates how far gone this case is
uh the cia at a meeting with erlichmann
gray and so on explains that there's
they have nothing whatever to do with
the watergate
they have nothing to do with this
hundred thousand dollars they don't care
who investigates the hundred thousand
dollars it's not going to
interfere with their business so i guess
it's either ellickman or haldeman who
said yesterday
then they asked the cia is it possible
that in the course of this investigation
that something relating to the cia might
turn up
can you give us an absolute guarantee
that if we investigate this
we won't turn up some cia operation
i said of course we can't give you such
a guarantee get that problem just
giving people a parking ticket they
can't guarantee who's
over parked whether it's one of their
agents or not
so on that basis the fbi is then called
off the case
because they might stumble on a cia
agent
well what does all this suggest i think
it clearly suggests
the national security issue from nixon
1969 to nixon 1973
is bogus but not just as bogus for the
last four years
but i think we now have to consider
maybe its bogus
for the last 25 years ever since i
started all this
but maybe last time i was talking
discussing the possibility goes from
dallas to the watergate
but maybe it goes from the pumpkin
papers to the watergate
one may have noticed that during
the debacle at the end of the pentagon
papers case here
but some of the testimony of hunt
was given to the court in los angeles
some of his grand jury testimony
in that grand jury testimony hunt
explained
how he made the fake cable the fake
cables
that kennedy is supposed to have sent
ordering the assassination to diem
in 1963 and hunt said
when he set to work in the cables he
couldn't find the typewriter in which
the cables were originally written
but he said since the algae his case
nobody takes typewriter evidence
seriously
so it didn't matter and then proceeded
without the real typewriter
to make his forgeries i noticed a couple
days ago nixon
said that one reason he couldn't trust
the cia's answer
that the they had nothing to do with the
watergate
is that you can't rely on your
subordinates but that's what truman did
in the his case
so nixon has the his case on his mind
all the time
as to where this all starts in his case
there are plenty of indications as false
data
and after his his second trial
experts from the fog museum in boston
went over the typewriter evidence issued
a report
saying that the typewriter alleged to be
alger hisses typewriter
is a handmade typewriter in which the
fonts were soldered by hand
that's a sort of typewriter you couldn't
buy that it isn't mr hiss's typewriter
that the documents presented in the his
trial
were not typed in the order that they're
chronologically dated
and one expert said documents were not
from 1938 but were from 1948.
all this appears in the appendix now
jahis's book on the case
at the time the court refused to reopen
the case on the basis of this
evidence i think after what hunt said
we and hunt also casually remarks in the
grand jury testimony
when he was asked to fabricate the
cables it was no great difficulty for
him
because he'd been trained to do this and
he'd done it successfully many times
and i hope when he appears before the
irving committee
somebody starts asking about these many
times
but if this sort of forgery has been
going on by the government
how do we know it didn't start with the
pumpkin papers at the whole
demolishment of a liberal state
department
the whole construction of the cold war
isn't the outgrowth of this sort of
thing
this was followed in rapid fire
succession
by the rosenberg case by mccarthyism
completely eliminating a whole liberal
past
the grown up under franklin roosevelt
then in the 60s
we find a whole series of political
assassinations
which have changed the whole nature of
our country each one of these
assassinations of john f kennedy
robert kennedy martin luther king and
the attempted assassination of wallace
were immediately covered up strange's
documents are classified top secret like
oswald's 1962 tax return
like the autopsy of robert kennedy
all this is being hidden claimed to be
classified
claimed be classified in the interests
of national security
now that we know what national security
amounts to under nixon
and we've been told that the fbi was
doing the sort of things nixon
wanted to reinstitute in 1970 was doing
these from 1941 to 66.
i think it's time to get extremely
suspicious and to demand
that we find out what's really been
going on in this country
and who's actually been running it to
come to the
end of the story for the time being what
are we going to do with the present
state of affairs
i think present state of affairs i was
in washington a couple of weeks ago
has reached crisis proportions the
nixon's government is a shambles
is unable to function anymore that he is
crippled as a president
and won't be trusted by his party or by
congress
for the rest of his term when the 1970
paper prolonged by dean
is published in a week or so it's going
to show that he ordered the commission
of felonies the violation of laws
violation the constitution the violation
of his oath
of office what's gonna follow then
nixon i think gave his last defense in
this crazy four thousand word statement
and there's nothing left to do the
independent prosecutor mr cox
first day in the job gets informed he's
not an independent prosecutor he's now
supposed to take orders from nixon nixon
can't even remember from day to day
what the state of affairs is
congress is faced with an extremely
serious problem if the government can't
function
and they're going to have undoubted
proof
the president has committed crimes agnew
at the moment is functioning as
impeachment insurance
he used to function as assassination
insurance
because no one loaned nut there at least
the suspicion is there's no
not alone enough who prefers agnew as
president
to the present state of affairs and now
congress i think is feels somewhat
stymied
that if they impeach the result is
fairly obvious
and nixon said to the pow
said to his family he's not going to
quit
and nobody's taken up congressman rice's
plan
that nixon and agnew both quietly resign
and we proceed from there this being the
state of affairs
i'm starting a suit to annul the
election
on the grounds of fraud deceit and so on
and i think the report by
charles taft gives adequate grounds and
this is no joke
the suit is being discussed now in
massachusetts new york missouri nevada
and california
and judge ruffin of san diego is
preparing a suit for me
and others preparing it in other states
and i think that
this is our best way out we know the
last election was a fake
we know we didn't have a genuine
democratic election
and now is the time instead of moving
forward into the impeachment problem
moving backward to hold a genuine
election and then start getting down to
our problems again
well the question is whether we have any
faith that the
i assume you're talking about the irwin
committee whether the irwin committee is
really going to unearth all this
and the speaker doesn't have much faith
in the democratic party
thinks they're unlikely to really get to
the bottom of it
well my guess is the bottom may be
extremely deep
and mr dean said in an interview in time
magazine last week
they've moved a couple of inches but
they have several miles to go
and i think he knows where off he speaks
but i think when's also seeing a real
crisis in the establishment
that they never realized that the mafia
mafia politics had taken over and that
what they assumed was a sort of game
that they play
between the democratic and republican
party according to certain rules
has been burst wide open by nixon
and his crew and nixon's crew has thrown
has made the democratic party the enemy
and the republican establishment
unwanted so the republican establishment
can't talk to nixon
there's an article san diego paper
yesterday that
bob wilson the head of the congressional
committee of the republicans
can't get a hold of nixon on the phone
hasn't been able to for months because
holdem and hates them
so i think the establishment wants to
get rid of a
feature of this at the same time they're
so astounded by what's
being used here that at least some
members of it i've talked to in the last
couple of weeks
are prepared for the first time in a
decade to consider that
something outrageous has been going on
for a hell of a long time
and that if this sort of conspiracy can
be run in the last couple of years out
of the white house
that maybe something like it's been run
for the last decade
so i think people who would never have
entertained the possibility
that a conspiracy of the sort that
appears in executive action
could actually be taking place in this
country now conceive
it's perfectly plausible set of events
because the same damn things happened
the last couple of years
so i think there will be pressure to get
much further than they have in the past
uh i'd just like to say a word to that
you know it's traditional
in the american political scene that
when there is extremism on the right
it is conservative forces which have
dismantled it
that was true after the um palmer raids
it was true in the mccarthy period when
as joseph welch the
serbic republican from boston
and the watkins committee took apart
the mccarthy power base and brought
censorship
to the congress and as now it's judge
sarika
and the conservative constitutionalist
uh senator irvin
now that's been the history uh in this
country that the
swing away from right extremism has come
from the center
in this country and never from the left
and i think that uh
that's what we have to face now and when
we look forward now
perhaps to teach-ins on the campuses the
way there were on the war
and in churches and in labor unions and
town hall meetings
that there be for the first time in
american history
a radical critique and plan of action
come forward out of this
uh and that we not simply rest as the
gentleman suggests
uh in the uh benign
expectations of the democratic party to
do the work for us
we have to not just be spectators at
this television spectacular
but take a lucid and audacious series of
actions
of which an overflow meeting like
tonight is a good example
the ties to dallas
at this point i think are basically
structural
that is organized crime uh
certain kind of industry especially
aerospace and conglomerate industry
and intelligence fronts those ties exist
the this is the paradigm or the model
uh that we see here uh for dallas as far
as actual personnel
that's tied between gemstone and the
executive action
of dallas in 1963 of course that's very
difficult and it's going to take a
a lucky break really to break through
but let us say that one of those
arrested in the watergate
a man named frank sturgis a professional
assassin
was a friend a colleague a co-worker of
both lee harvey oswald
and david ferry who was lee harvey
oswald's new orleans control
or agent handler and who had been
working with him since he had been a
teenager
as a matter of fact and sturgis was
questioned by the fbi
immediately after the dallas
assassination
um he has uh uh it was left ambiguous as
are most things in the warren report
uh but he does seem to be a link and he
is involved in executive actions
outside of the country that much we know
for sure
what evidence is there linking sturges
sturgis
was arrested the day after
he was interrogated the day after on
november 23rd
there now are something like 60 pages of
interviews with sturgis from the fbi
that are available which don't hang
together with
what we what else we know sturgis
apparently knew oswald in 1962 in miami
there's no evidence that lee harvey
oswald the man who was killed in dallas
ever was in miami so sturgis may have
known somebody else using that name
and in my book i offer evidences at
least one other character and i think by
now we know of two other people
who use that name stir just may have
known somebody else
using that name in some of these
operations
sturgeon sturgis was involved in
executive actions
was in partly in barker's speech and
behalf of stairs
the other day on the tv what a great man
he was he started rattling off
his past activities but i think when
star just testifies we're going to find
that he has
been engaged in a lot of cia activities
trying to
change the governments in latin american
countries
the question is why are some of the
witnesses now speaking
because they have immunity nothing more
can happen to them
and they hope in case of mccordy hasn't
been sentenced yet
it's hoping to influence a sentence case
of others the sentence can be reduced
now uh hunt and sturgis have
enormous sentences at the moment but
they've been given immunity for any
other crime they want to discuss
so i understand hunting sturges has been
telling the grand jury
tons of things of what what else they
did for a living
and they can't be prosecuted for any
other crime
uh so i think it's the present pressure
that a lot of these people are not
interested in spending the rest of their
life in jail
and i i think besides that we see here
what's
called you know clearly a contradiction
in the ruling circle
the cia is fighting for its life as is
the fbi
and it's clear that mccord and others
that
are going to go down the line to protect
the cia
and the only way they can protect the
cia is to
implicate fatally the white house so
that
if this were happening in another
country where you saw the attempted
takeover
of intelligence agencies and then an
open rebellion
between and among the intelligence
agencies and
the executive you would realize that you
were dealing
with an aborted coup uh and with a
government
enmeshed in the um in the hysteria
and stranglehold of of an aborted coup
you may be taken in by the political way
in which this thing is developing
that if the democrats started screaming
then
they built up a opposition in the
republican party that would hamstring it
and i think i'm not privy to what the
democratic party's
councils are but it appears to me that
they're playing a very careful game of
letting the conservative democrats and
the republicans blow the thing wide open
and not doing any pushing their own they
don't have to
but i think another one of your points
is very serious as to whether
as this unfolds and becomes obvious the
democrats are a peripheral target
and that the real paranoia of the
government was about the
counter culture whether the democrats
are going to care that much about
the controls that were introduced for
the counter culture
and uh god led the thing peter out when
it gets to that point
but i think the horror that they've all
everybody has read
the prolonged document has expressed
indicates
that does go beyond anything they'd ever
conceive of doing
i i think this these points are well
taken
and and and it is a a a fight within a
fight that is to say
the rockefeller agent hague is in the
white house now
the moderate wing of the republican
party while the right wing of the
republican party is moving swiftly to
take over
the funding and the state and city
machinery of the gop machine so there's
a terrific fight going on
i would guess that we could say power
has already changed hands in my opinion
the fact that the independent prosecutor
could only be a kennedy man is a clear
indication to me
that the kennedy elements of the
establishment of the ruling circle
are definitely coming into power at that
level that isn't to say the popular
level
but at the level of the machinery of
government and the backing
of the those elements in the
establishment which can be considered
uh progressive as opposed to the more
reactionary elements that lie behind
operation gemstone
i do think that in the teach ends that i
contemplate coming up that it's
time for a revision and a
demystification of the cold war in the
50s as never before and that the his
case and the rosenberg case
have to be shown now we can now point
we've been able to point all along to
forgeries and sauber nation and every
other kind
of blackmail used in those cases now we
have a different kind of context a
different kind of spotlight
and we owe it to the 1950s and what was
they
perpetrated war on the progressive
movements in this country they used the
techniques of war
while we used the techniques of the
first amendment we used
leaflets we used the right to free
speech the right to demonstrate
peacefully
we used the electoral process we used
political process to try to make change
it's clear
now that we suffered and
and underwent a series of warlike
actions against us that explains our
defeats in the fifties
it explains what happened to the black
liberation movement in the sixties
they were the victims of war-like acts
that explains our defeats not some
subjective
and psychological and hyper-critical uh
technique that we've developed to blame
each other for our defeats
we suffered at the hands of a
paramilitary
orchestrated operation that's been in
high gear for some 25 years
having seen that we have to come back
now
with the political techniques that we
have developed in these periods
and do what we did for watergate what we
did in the war
we were able to create in the anti-war
movement
so much contradiction that operation
watergate became inevitable for the
ruling circle and that's our next
challenge
in the 70s now i think one of the great
opportunities we're going to have
whether we do it or whether the
establishment does it is for the first
time we're going to find out
how they carried on this paramilitary
war that uh
people are now coming up from the
underground the fbi
the secret service and so on and the cia
who are willing to explain how certain
events occurred
and for the first time we'll get the
data and then be able to
construct a real history of what went on
question was whether in view of
what's come out about the difficulties
the present administration had with
j edgar hoover and the opportune time of
his death
well there's any reason to suspect i
don't know whether you're suggesting
foul play
i i just don't know of any reason he was
an elderly gentleman
not in good health so uh what was he 76
so i don't find it extraordinary but it
is
the month of may 1972 does turn out to
have been
a very extraordinary month hoover died
at the beginning of it
bremer has shot wallace in the middle of
it and the watergate occurred
and isn't it also the month of one of
the great busts in washington d.c
i think they weren't reluctant a lot of
people of
various political persuasions as you
know jumped in as critics of the
warren commission and the majority of
them were on the left
they were stymied by the establishment
just put everything under lock and key
got all the uh public relations men to
announce that
everything's been explained it's either
too simple so we don't have to explain
it to you again
or it's too secret we can't tell you
about it
why they didn't pick it up it's also
during the period the organized left is
being subjected there's constant
harassment on every front
i i have something to say about that
asking the question is jack kimbrough
who's done a remarkable book on the rfk
assassination
showing incontrovertible ballistics
proof of two guns firing at the
ambassador hotel in 1968
but this question i try to take up in
detail in the novel
a fact executive action one of the
reasons the left did not respond
to a crisis in 1963 certainly the
equivalent of watergate
in 1973 was that
the scenario the cover-up scenario
worked
but the question is well taken and in
these teach-ins i think the left should
examine
why it is that it accepted these crucial
assassinations
uh this accepted the story put out by
the government propaganda
and did not address itself to these
issues which affected the man in the
street and the woman in the street in
the 60s
in the way that the war affected the
radicals
i'll take this occasion now to make a
revelation
for the first time in public concerning
the uh
kennedy assassination and that is
that both professor popkin and i on
separate occasions well i'll speak only
for myself
have now had confirmed that mr clay shaw
was not a contract agent but an employee
of the central intelligence agency
and that comes from the highest ranking
central intelligence agency
officer ever to quit victor marchetti
the super conspirator charles coulson is
the go between
between the teamsters and the white
house
he's the teamsters lawyer right yeah
he's also the teamsters lawyer he took
that account with him when he left the
white house early
after having made uh covered his tracks
as he thought perfectly to set up
erlichman haldeman
mitchell and dean and not get caught
himself and it's dubious to me whether
colson who to me is the arch conspirator
ever will be caught and the reason i
call colson a double agent
is that coulson does not come to the
white house from the usc old boy gang
or from ucla or from the west coast
coulson comes from being the chief aide
to carl mcintyre
the man in charge for orchestrating the
pro-war marches
and the link between mcintyre and the
american mission in saigon
and marshall key and when he left the
right and these are the extreme elements
of the right the american security
council
these are the elements involved uh the
action elements in these assassinations
when he went to the white house
the euphemism was used that he was to be
liaison
for the committee to reelect that is sid
to ethnic groups the american legion and
so forth
what he was liaison to was the extreme
right those same men
from the american security council the
national rifle association etc
who alone met with nixon on the eve of
the invasion of cambodia
let me add the teamsters are a special
problem that they've been involved with
nixon for a long time they paid for his
house in palos verdes estate
and i'm sorry peter scott isn't here
tonight because he's an expert on
all the dealings with them a big suit is
now going on between
shotner and the man from new hampshire
leader loeb
over shotner's role in collecting two
and a half million dollars at three
million dollars to get
haffa out of jail and the teamsters
contribution to
the re-election funds i think the
teamsters are a special element in
their relations with nixon but with
regard to coulson besides what don says
i had noticed that coulson's the one who
brought hunt into the
whole operation and been looking for how
he happened to know hunt
that hunt does isn't the sort of man you
meet casually
he's always off in a job turns out
coulson went to college with hunt
in brown in 1942 and they've been
friends ever since
hunt is also the extreme right and when
i met somebody who had been with hunt
the day nixon went to
china and hunt was raving we shouldn't
send
people to china we should send bombs to
china
and here is nixon's best agent best
birther
he doesn't even support the china policy
by the way both coulson and hunt were
two of the original organizers
of young americans for freedom a
definite intelligence front
and that young americans for freedom
will start to figure prominently now i
think
as we go further into operation gemstone
along with viva
the only other person who surfaced as a
friend of hunts
is william buckley and buckley is the
godfather of hunt's four children
and the executor of mrs hunt's estate
in the novel executive action exists
what i consider the proof
that kennedy after the bear pigs fiasco
came to the decision
that capital and the establishment could
only be saved
by the dismantling of cia clandestine
which had gotten out of control the
cuban desk and elements in cia were out
of control
and that he must liquidate the
involvement in vietnam
now you can argue as some do and there's
two arguments one that it was a steady
smooth escalation from eisenhower
through nixon or that kennedy was making
a change and
that was one of the reasons he was
assassinated i think there's proof for
the second for this reason
when the headlines in 1963
october uh the
uh blazoned troops home by christmas
advisor's home by 65 and he put those
words
in the mouth of mcnamara and taylor you
can argue well he was just lying
like uh johnson and nixon but there's
one flaw in that argument
one thing that nobody ever did except
kennedy was set a date
to set a date was to take away the
option
uh for a political realist like the
kennedy brothers
uh of of going back on that option
in other words he made this over a year
before the election
he was bringing a thousand troops a
month home he was down to twelve
thousand
and dick popkin and i sat in the
pentagon papers trial and our mouth fell
open when we heard read from the
pentagon papers that the national
security council minutes
of august september and october 1963
and november are missing and the
historian of the pentagon papers in a
footnote says therefore
we have to rely on on on books that were
published about the period and it was
precisely that gap or lacunae
of august september october november 63
when the decision was taken
to liquidate vietnam when we only have
the quote from bobby kennedy
we have to go all the way or get out the
same thing he used on the hawks
in the in the bay of pigs crisis and we
know was a technique of the kennedy
brothers to force the hand of the hawks
to tell him to go all the way
or get out that's all we have left over
from that four month period it was into
that gap
that charles coulson had howard hunt
forged the cables
because that gap existed that those
cables had been missing
since since just after the assassination
and it's into that gap that the forge
cables to tie jfk
to the dm assassination went so i think
that we have proof now
that kennedy for reasons having nothing
to do with pity
for the indo-chinese people or a change
of heart
decided just as nixon decided many years
later to go to china to do
many things the salt talks disarmament
many things that kennedy was planning
it's simply that kennedy almost a
generation earlier had taken the
decision
that he would build a new kind of
coalition of labor minorities
young people and institute a kind of
american
quasi-social democracy and set up a
reign which would lead from john kennedy
to robert kennedy to edward kennedy
stretching to 1984
a 24-year reign of power and an enormous
restructuring of america
so that i'm not minimizing the power uh
potential of the kennedy brothers what
i'm saying is that i believe
all evidence points that when those
headlines came out troops home by
christmas
advisors out by 65 that it was true
uh let me add a couple of facts i know
on this
in the washington post of last saturday
they print a story about the real secret
intelligence organization that runs
everything
which keeps changing its name anytime
anybody finds out what its name is
and it keeps no records but they decide
what sort of
uh executive actions will take place and
so on
and the story says that bobby kennedy
was never allowed to be a member of this
group
he wanted very much to be but mitchell
did become a member
and it got politicized as soon as
mitchell got involved
kennedy was trying to get in charge of
this sort of thing
and was failing all through 1963 had
been setting up committees
to find out what was really going on and
who was running the intelligence
organizations
and every time these committees would
turn out to have either alan dulles on
it
or mccone or somebody else in the cia
and
kennedy would be no further along than
he was before
the last committee he appointed was in
early 19 november 1973
and alan dulles was on it and came to no
useful conclusion by the time of his
death
but i was told by senator morse that
morse
in a conversation with bobby kennedy
right after the assassination
was assured that his brother had taken
the decision to get out of vietnam
and was going to meet with senator lodge
who was in our
council in in saigon two days later in
san francisco
so it seems to be a basis for the claim
that it was really gonna happen
as far as the bay of pigs goes i don't
know when it got started but it's
obviously
well underway before kennedy got to be
president both nixon
nixon said he knew all about it during
the debates that were going on
and didn't dare reveal it
these are the best we say they're the
best hunt was in charge of plans
the legendary eduardo for players euron
for
geron for the bay of pigs and mccord was
a super agent
dulles dropped him behind the lines in
the soviet union the 1950s
on the most delicate operations but what
must be pointed out
and i go to some pains to do it in the
novel they made even more egregious
errors
in the dallas assassination of 1963
but the media and the electorate and
the left were paralyzed and did not
seize upon these errors
and when you say they are just bunglers
they are the best
that american technology and finance can
put forward
and to give proof of that until the day
of their arrest
hunt and mccord both sat on special
emergency crisis committees
mccord was the head of a 16-man unit
working out of the pentagon
in charge of the censorship of news and
the roundup of subversives and that's a
quote
in time of emergency and hunt in the 50s
and 60s
had sat on two emergency planning boards
in charge of censorship of news
and roundup of subversives in time of
emergency
these are the men who would act out if
necessary the scenario
after the arjun provocateur did their
work in san diego
or miami had operation gemstone not been
aborted
but this is the best they can do and
they were equally clumsy in the hiss
case and in the rosenberg case a
fool or a child can see what went on in
the rosenberg case
it's fear and not lack of their mistakes
or our intelligence
that have paralyzed us and i think we
have to say that just as they
failed abominably in vietnam with their
plans failed in cuba
have failed all over the world and will
fail all over the world because their
world
view is based on an inferior race an
inferior class
starting with the american populace that
is doomed to failure and that is why
they have to resort everywhere and
always to violence
as soon as their crackpot scenarios
break down
and that's why we have to push them to
the wall now they are moral morons
and operationally they are often fools
and clowns
but what they have behind him is the
organized violence of the state and that
we mustn't underestimate
but we mustn't overestimate the mystique
of these clandestine crackpots
i don't know whether it's arrogance or
whether as some people are suggesting
that maybe they were set up to fail
and they were setting themselves up to
fail as part of their
cia war against the against the nixon
administration because the
whole thing the actual watergate seems
a really incredible burglary and new
york
los angeles and all sorts of places are
full of much better burglars than that
there is a new book out in france
addending to identifying two of the
watergate
men as having approached the oas that is
the right wing
insurgents against de gaulle to uh kill
kennedy when he visited de gaulle
in 1962 using as a cover and attempted
assassination on de gaulle
and we don't have enough facts on that
yet but two
of the uh watergate have been i think we
can guess definitely who one of them is
but
uh i have been identified in france by
an oas agent
i i found uh i was in washington uh
earlier part of may that there's a
tremendous struggle going on within the
old agency the cia
between its original faction that set it
up
between the young turks who've been
trying to get out people they regard as
dinosaurs like hunt and mccord
and the politicized people who nixon has
brought in
the man has been appointed new head of
the cia
hasn't been approved by congress yet was
head of their political assassination
division
mr colby and mr colby has said in
testimony before congress he's
responsible for
operation phoenix that he killed six
thousand political people
in vietnam by assassination not by b-52s
so that's the sort of person who is the
old cia
and colby in an interview with the new
york times said that he regards the cia
as the most important bulwark of
democracy
it's more important than political
government and so on
i talked to mccord when i was in
washington i think mcchord holds similar
views
and these represent the original cia
position
but then there are people who've come up
since the original
group who regard themselves more as
technicians
and see hunt mccord colby and so on as
neanderthals from the original cold war
and then nixon's been adding into this
politicized people
who see the cia as functioning as an arm
of the
political process of the ruling
government so i think at the moment
there's a
three-cornered fight going on as to
who's going to control the cia
and also what role it's going to play in
the future
and hunts mcchord's been issuing endless
memorandums gala from the hearings he
writes them
six times a day and one day as in
washington he issued a 383-page
memorandum
and each one of these things always ends
with a plea for
restoring the original cia so i think
they're
the origin the old boys are trying to
get back to where they were at
1950 or so and with the sort of
influence they have
the question is asked is who are sirhan
sirhan
and james earl ray and how they fit into
this pattern of conspiracy
ray i think is a very interesting case
where the evidence that he was guilty is
so minimal
the evidence is involved in
conspiratorial activity maximal
and nobody uh the establishment
immediately decide he's alone not
he's a racist and that's why he did it
they couldn't find anybody
who ever discussed racism with him he
had lived in los angeles in the hotel
somewhere around here
and nobody in the hotel ever heard him
having the slightest interest in
politics race or anything else
he apparently is a hired gun a hired
hoodlum
who was smuggling from the time he
escaped from jail
to the time he was arrested after king's
death
and smuggling is not an activity you can
carry on by yourself
so we have to smuggle in concert
it's not one of these victimless crimes
it has to be a conspiracy mr fensterwald
who is mccord's lawyer is also james
earl ray's lawyer
and he's taken on the case after
everybody else
milked ray of all the money he had and
he apparently had a hell of a lot
in the beginning far more than he could
ever have gained by
any of the activities uh the fbi claimed
he was engaged in the fbi said he earned
his money bank robbing but they could
never name a bank he robbed
so array seems to have been somebody who
was hired by a
conspiratorial apparatus which
from the fact he's engaged in smuggling
i guess it's connected with the mafia
and was sent from place to place to do
various things and rey's own claim is
he didn't do the shooting he was just
sent to register in a motel there
register in this rooming house
deliver a gun then for the first time
since he never read anything but the
sports section
he discovered when the gun went off that
martin luther king was there and beat
the hell out of the
town and then spent a fortune traveling
around until he was caught
so i think ray is part of a
conspiratorial apparatus and how it's
connected with the others i don't think
we know yet
sirhan's more mysterious maybe mr
kimbrough knows more about this
but there's certainly plenty of evidence
that sirhan did not act alone
the three people went with him to buy
the bullets there was the lady in the
polka dot dress
there's some evidence that he was in san
diego with a man
the day before getting ready for the
event
so i i think is hardly a loner fence
dewalt has found
when you try to get information from the
state department as to whether sirhan
ever had a passport
they clam up entirely regarded as one of
the greatest state secrets of all time
and fenced world used to be a lawyer for
the state department has been able to
find out about
anybody else he is interested if they
ever had a passport
but this is the one case where it's been
absolutely stymied
so i think there is some indication that
sirhan's also
part of some sort of conspiratorial
operators i have with me
a motion that fenced walls made in the
united district court
united states district court for the
middle district of tennessee
a memorandum of facts about the ray case
which
would convince any reasonable man i
didn't solve the case
he's unable to get any evidentiary
hearing just gets turned down these
things
so i'm going to try and publish this as
an article so at least
if the courts don't want to hear it
people will know that the case there
really is no case against mr ray
you